## Farm and Future
Mars, Venus, Moon and Jupiter are the planets which indicate that one will take up “Farming” if they are in any manner connected with houses 2, 6 and 10. Mars denotes “Land”. He is called Bhoomikaraka: Venus and Mars shows the action to produce, Moon shows irrigation. Jupiter indicates progeny or production and produce. Hence one takes up farming, if one enjoys the conjoined period of Venus, Mars, Moon and Jupiter.

Kethu Dasa 6 years, 2 months and 13 days. Second house extends from 29° 34’ Aquarius to 4° 34’ Aries. Moon and Jupiter are in the second house. No planet is in Moon’s star. Mercury and Jupiter are in Jupiter's star. 6th house is vacant. It is owned by Mercury. In its star Sani, Sun and Kethu are deposited. 10th house is occupied by Mars, Saturn, Sun and Kethu. Majority of the planets are connected with farming. Rahu represents Venus who is in Mars star. Rahu is also in Mars star. Mars is in Saturn star. Ketu represents Mars and Moon is in Ketu star. Hence all planets are connected with farming.

Of these, which are favourable? Those planets which are deposited in such a sub which is ruled by Mars or Venus or Moon or Jupiter. Sun, Moon and Venus are in Moon’s sub. Jupiter is in Mars’s sub. Rahu and Ketu are in Jupiter sub. Mars, which is in Saturn star and Saturn sub denotes that during Mars sub period, one will purchase plot, acquire and use it for one’s business as Saturn is lord of 2, deposited in 10 in the constellation of lord of 6. Therefore, this gentleman has purchased the plot of land for farming on 6th July, 1968. At that time, he was running Moon Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Mars Anthra, and Saturn Sookshma. Mars and Saturn, as already said, are the two planets, which are connected with 2, 4 and 11, indicate purchase of property. Second house shows acquisition, 4th house indicates land and the 11th house shows possession and gains. Since Mars and Saturn are connected with 2, 4 and 11, he purchased in that conjoined period. The day was Saturday and Moon was transiting in Venus sign, Jupiter star, and Venus the Bhuktinatha was transiting in Jupiter star Punarvasu. Thus according to the method advocated by Krishnamurti Padhdhati, it is found that these agree. Thereby it is a confirmation that the horoscope erected according to the timing given by parents is correct.

As regards the future of any profession, one is to know whether the periods (according to Vimshottari Dasa) ruled by the planets have any connection whatsoever with that nature of profession, which has been started. If the following dasa lord has no connection, then that particular nature of profession will come to an end and according to the nature of the dasa lord, there will be a change in the profession. Now the Mars Dasa follows with that of Moon and Mars is in Saturn star, Saturn sub. Therefore, more and more acquisition of land, expansion of business, etc. are shown. Then follows Rahu Dasa, who is deposited in Mars star and Jupiter sub.

Students should note that any planet, which is deposited in Saturn sub, no doubt, gives advantageous results, if he is a benefic; but yet one will not be satisfied with the net profit; But if Jupiter happens to be the sub lord, there will be the providential help so that the yield from the field will be satisfactory and also the price will be such as to bring larger profits. Therefore, I predict that during the remaining period of Moon Dasa, in which the cultivation will be going on and the farm will come up without any difficulty for watering, etc., as the Sun Bhukti alone is left out, which is also in Venus sub. During Mars Dasa as Mars is in the sub of Saturn, the growth will not be as satisfactory as it was, in Moon Dasa, yet since it is lord of 10 and 11 and also in the constellation of the planet in the 10th bhava, there will be progress; Saturn in Scorpio sign (watery, fruitful sign) in Anuradha star (Anuradha indicates fertiliser, chemical, etc.) show that he will make use of chemical fertiliser to have greater yield from the field, but not to the extent to which one expects. The best sub periods in Mars Dasa would be Jupiter Bhukti, Mercury Bhukti and Bukties of the luminaries Sun and Moon. During Rahu Dasa, as it is in Mars constellation and in the sub of Jupiter there will be bumper crop and most satisfactory results promising increases in income, satisfactory bank position, expansion of business etc.

## Shall I own a cinema theatre? If so, when?

The horoscope is as follows:

Ketu Dasa balance 6 years 10 months 25 days.

To own any building, one is to note the houses 4, 11, and 12. The fourth house denotes permanent possession; the twelfth house indicates the issue of a cheque; and the eleventh house indicates the gains. It is the sub lord of the fourth cusp, by nature, that denotes the purpose for which the building will be used.

The fourth cusp sub lord is Venus, as it is in 15° 25’ in Gemini. The twelfth house is occupied by Venus and Saturn. Venus denotes music, opera, and cinema. Saturn is lord of the eleventh and twelfth houses. No planet is in Saturn's star, and Saturn is very strong to give eleventh and twelfth house results. No planet is in the fourth house. The lord of the sign wherein the fourth cusp falls is Mercury.

The Moon is in Ketu's star and Ketu's sub. The Moon is connected with the fifth house, as it is lord of the sign wherein the fifth cusp falls, and no planet is in the Moon's constellation. The fifth house and Venus indicate cinema. Hence, Moon Dasa Saturn Bhukti Venus Anthra will be the time of having one cinema theatre around the end of January 1974 and beginning of February 1974, when the Sun will transit in the constellation of the Moon and the sign of Saturn.

## When can I clear off the loan?

"An agreement was signed with the contractor on 14-10-67 requesting him to construct a building for my use at a cost of Rs. 50,000. I paid Rs. 6,600 on 29-6-61, secondly on 14-10-68; Rs. 10,000, thirdly on 21-12-68 Rs. 7,000. The balance is to be paid. Source and date of repayment, God alone knows," says one student.

"Why do you say that God alone knows? Cannot our Guruji tell you when and how you will repay and regain peace?"

"Yes. He can help us by prediction."

"Then what do you expect from an astrologer? One classmate may consult about when he will get married. Since he is depressed and dejected as he remains unmarried and he had his 37th birthday, only yesterday. Will the astrologer relieve his worry or satisfy him by giving any of his aged daughters in marriage to him? Or if I go and say that there is pressure for money etc, which you are aware of, will he issue a cheque and help me? If our room mate requests him to find out when he can get accommodation, will he make a search for him. Astrologer can give only this much relief. That is he can remove the worry. How? He will predict when the matter will materialise."

"Alright let us meet him."

Both enter.

"Yes, come in, come on; why do you hesitate?"

"Sir, we have not taken an appointment, but we have taken a chance."

"What for?"

The worried person narrates the cause of his worry and asks "when can I be free from these, by paying the balance?"

"Have you brought your horoscope?"

"Yes, Sir here it is. I have worked out as per your method."

Horoscope is as under:

Venus Dasa balance 15 years, 9 months 27 days.

It is verified. An intelligent student, without a single mistake has calculated and erected the map according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati.

"The chart is perfectly alright. Give me few minutes."

Two minutes passed. I made all calculations and I wrote the dates of repaying in a slip of paper.

I asked him "What is the time, now?"

"4:20 AM, Sir."

"What is the lagna?"

"Let me refer to Tables of Houses and tell you, Sir."

"Yes, Tables of Houses furnishes correct information. There the ready reckoner. Please refer."

"Mesha started at 9:38 AM, Sir. So it is Mesha."

"Who is the owner of Mesha?"

"Mars, Sir."

"What is your day of birth?"

"Tuesday."

"Who governs Tuesday?"

"Mars."

"Next, where is Moon now?"

"In Taurus."

"Who is its Lord?"

"Venus."

"What is your birth star?"

"Poorvashada."

"Who rules Poorvashada?"

"Venus, Sir."

"You are the third person visiting now."

"Do you see that your lord of lagna is Mars, lord of your star Venus?"

"Yes, Sir."

"What did I teach you in the class?"

"You said that one can consult an astrologer only at such a time so that the ruling planet at that moment agrees with the ruling planets at his or her birth moment."

"Are you satisfied with the correctness of your chart?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Now, let me tell you, the next date of repayment will be 15-3-69."

"How did you arrive at it in 2 minutes, Sir?"

If I explain, it will take 15 minutes. Anyhow let me oblige you both.

What do you mean by an agreement with contractor. Does it not mean that you and another person sign a document wherein both agree. So which houses are we to judge? 3rd house counted from your lagna and 3rd counted from 7th i.e. houses 3 and 9 in your chart.

3rd house is vacant: Owner is Mercury. It has no planet in its stars Ashlesha, Jyeshta or Revathi. So Mercury is one of the significators. Jupiter, Moon and Mercury are in the 9th house: Mercury, we have judged. Venus alone is in Moon's star. Saturn is in Jupiter's star. So Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Moon, Jupiter are the significators. Include Rahu and Kethu also as it represents Jupiter & Mercury respectively.

What was the period running at the time of signing the contract? Moon Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Saturn Anthra, Venus Shookshma. The day was a Saturday. The star was Saturn star. The time of signing the contract was Makara sign, Moon star.

Next you paid first installment. Houses 8 and 12 indicate the repayment, just like 2 and 6 when judged together, denote borrowing. You repaid during the Moon Dasa, Sun Bhukti, Saturn Anthra on a Saturday when Moon was in Cancer owned by itself.

Next payment was made during Mars Dasa, Mars Bhukti, Mars Anthra, Rahu Shookshma on a Monday in Rahu constellation in Mercury sign.

The third was paid on 21-12-1968 during Mars Dasa, Mars Bhukti, Saturn Anthra on a Saturday when Moon was in Makara ruled by Saturn.

"How is it, Sir, that Saturn gives me money and also makes me part with it?"

In your chart, Saturn owns both 11th and 12th houses: No planet is in 12; Saturn alone is in 11. No planet is in Saturn star. Hence Saturn gives, due to 11th house and repays due to 12th house result. So, on the days governed by Saturn, you get cheques and also, you issue cheques.

"Can I pay in full?"

"No."

"Whenever Saturn rules, all payments will be made only in installments."

"Why, Sir?"

If Saturn indicates disease, Saturn gives a chronic one. If we get or give, Saturn prolongs the period by way of installment. It is a delaying planet to fulfil one's desire whereas it is not denying nor disappointing one.

When will I clear off the loan?

"Mars Dasa Rahu Bhukti Sun Anthra — January 1970."

"Will he give me time to that extent?"

Whether he gives or not, you clear off only when the conjoined period of planets, deposited in the constellation of planet in 8 operates; Judge the house.

"Thanks, Sir."

Both go smilingly and with the hope that he can repay and clear off in January, 1970 and with a decision to take time from the contractor.

"Is your worry over?" asks the classmate, while they are putting on shoes sitting in the outside verandah.

"What doubt is there? He deals with the subject so quickly, explains it in meticulous detail so lucidly and encourages with his convincing arguments so confidently." So saying they go on and I can't hear any more that they talk.

## Disease

Various books written by western authors are referred to, especially, “The Message of the Stars” written by Max Heindel and Augusta Foss Heindel, published by L.N. Fowler & Co., Lilly's Astrology, Zadkiel, Sepahriel, Llewlyn George, Alan Leo, etc. How the information collected there in is to be made use of while applying Krishnamurti Padhdhati is given below:

He says:

1. Never tell a patient a discouraging fact.
2. Never tell him when impending crises are due.
3. Never predict sickness at a certain time.
4. Never, never predict death.

He adds that it is a grave mistake, almost a crime, to tell sick persons anything discouraging, for it robs them of strength that should be husbanded with the utmost care to facilitate recovery. He is of opinion that it is a well-known fact that many students of the medical colleges feel the symptoms of every disease they study and suffer greatly in consequence of auto-suggestion, but the ideas of impending disease implanted by one in whom the victim has faith is much more dangerous. Therefore, it behooves the medical astrologer to be very cautious. If you cannot say anything encouraging, be silent.

Planets: Which part of the body and disease do they indicate?

1. Sun: Governs the vital fluid in the body, the heart, the pons varolii, etc. Radiant health is given by Sun.
2. Moon: Rules the stomach, the uterus, the ovaris, the lymphatics, the sympathetic nervous system, the synovial fluid. It indicates whether one can have menstrual troubles, uterine and ovarian afflictions, dyspepsia, eye trouble, lunacy, and diseases connected with the breast.
3. Mars: Governs the red bone marrow, haemoglobin, red blood corpuscles which carry food to various parts of the body and help in throwing out the waste. It also governs the genitals. Accidents, burns, gunshot injuries, surgery, are shown by Mars.
4. Mercury: Pulmonary system, respiratory diseases, motor segment of the spinal cord, vocal cord, locomotor functions, ataxia, nervous disorders, deafness.
5. Jupiter: Liver, glycogen, adrenals, arterial circulation, fatty degeneration of the muscles, tumours, cancer, morbid growths, enlargement of organs, waste of sugar, albumin in the urine, blood poisoning, apoplexy.
6. Venus: Throat, kidneys, lack of exercise, sedentary habits, poor circulation of blood, tonsillitis, venereal diseases.
7. Saturn: Obstruction, atrophy, gall bladder, bones, painful rheumatism, teeth, mottled enamel, fluoride intoxication, stiff bone, dullness in the peristaltic action thereby poor digestion, bruises, colds, chronic diseases, fear complex, never believes that he will be cured. Always pessimistic, fracture.

Thus, what each planet denotes is given. So, one is to note which planet will cause the disease, in which sign it is, and in which sign the lord of the constellation of the planet, which is the significator of both the first and the sixth houses, is. Considering all these, one has to come to a decision and then predict the nature of the disease from which one will suffer; then calculating the period when the significators of one and six operate, one is to give the time when one will fall ill. Similarly, one has to note down when the eleventh house significators will operate. If the 11th house significator is also the significator of the fifth house, one will surely have the cure for the disease from which one suffers. Unless the sub-sub period of the significator of the 11th house operates, following the period of the disease, immediate cure is denied, and one is to wait till the significator of the 5th and 11th begin to operate.
Nature of the Diseases: The ascendant and the significators of the ascendant will indicate whether one can maintain good health or suffer from any disease, or will have rapid or slow recovery from the ailment, or succumb to it. The sixth house denotes the upset of the health, the disease from which one will suffer, its nature, and duration of the disease. It is not necessary that one should suffer from any one variety of the disease in his lifetime whenever he falls ill; the nature changes according to the significator of the disease and the period running. Normally there will be a few significators of the sixth house. All cannot cause diseases unless the same significator of the sixth house is also significator of the first house. The sixth house indicates not only disease but also debts, difficulties, separation from the partner, etc. Hence, to definitely predict that one will suffer from some disease, one should note whether the significator of sixth house is also connected with the ascendant. If it is connected with the second and not the first, then it indicates either entering into service or borrowing money. If it is connected with the second and also the twelfth, it shows that he would have lost what he borrowed or repaid the loan already taken, etc. But if the significator of the sixth house is also the significator of the first and also the twelfth, one will be confined to bed or isolated, i.e. hospitalised.

The fatal disease is shown by the significator of the eighth house. One may suffer from various diseases during his lifetime. But that which would be the last disease from which one suffers is indicated by the sub-lord of the eighth house cusp. Twins may be born; the lagna and also the eighth house cusp may be in the same sign and star for both of them. But the nature of the death differs. How? Which can explain the reason for this, except the sub-lord of the eighth house? One of them meets with an accident; the other passes away on another date after suffering from some other disease. The only method by which one can decide is only by judging the sub-lord of the eighth house cusp, as the cusps alone change within the few minutes interval in their birth time. Therefore, one should note the nature of the diseases as explained below.

Note the sub-lord of the sixth house cusp. This needs correct moment of birth. If it is not available, then if you want to know the sub of the sixth, you take the ruling planets at the moment when you have the urge to put the query. Mysteriously, God will help you by eliminating the previous and the next sub to the one which you have to select.
Now a gentleman has entered my room in Delhi. His question was whether there would be any relief from the disease from which he was suffering. Today is Saturday. The constellation in which the Moon is transiting is Poorvashada, governed by Venus in the sign Sagittarius, owned by Jupiter. This shows that the body gets emaciated due to passing away of sugar in the urine. Hence I decided that it should be diabetes. When I asked the gentleman whether he suffered from diabetes, he said ‘yes’. His horoscope also indicated the same disease. It is as follows:

Now let us see the 6th cusp of the native. It is in Venus sign, Moon star and Venus sub. Combination of Venus, Moon is judged for profession as one who deals in milk, petrol or syrup. Hence for disease we have to take that he passes not urine but syrup-like fluid. It should be clearly stated as diabetes as Moon is connected with the 8th house by owning it and 8th house shows micturition-passing urine. If I want to note the sub from the ruling planets it can be seen that it may be Jupiter or Saturn or Venus sub as today it is Saturday and the star is Poorvashada. The lord of the star is stronger than the lord of the rasi which is stronger than the lord of the day. Therefore the divine grace is ever there to fix correctly that which you want by taking the ruling planets at the moment of judgment. Therefore whenever you want to find out the disease of a person, note the sub-lord of the sixth cusp; find out in whose constellation it is deposited. Find out the sign where the lord of the star was at the moment of birth or at the time of query and also the sub-lord of the sixth both put together to give the clue.

In the above horoscope the sub-lord is Venus. It is in Scorpio, the 8th sign of the zodiac and in a watery sign indicating sexual organ and excretion from the body. Venus was in the constellation of Jupiter in Libra. Libra is for kidney, bladder etc. How clear it is, is to be judged by the readers themselves. The native of this chart found out that he had unusual thirst in the night and when he sent his urine to the clinical laboratory, he found that there was sugar in the urine. Thus every reader of my magazine or the book should become a capable astrologer who could diagnose the disease with least effort even without seeing the patient. It is the chart erected for the moment of judgment which reveals.

Where is the necessity for the patient to visit the chamber of the astrologer? For a medical officer, he should see patient, hear his case, do all the possible tests and arrive at a correct diagnosis. For an astrologer it is easy to eliminate many of the suspected ones and pitch upon the disease correctly.
Pathogenic Effects of the Twelve Signs of the Zodiac:

1. Aries: Reacts upon the head, producing headaches, neuralgia, coma, trance, diseases of the brain and cerebral haemorrhage, insomnia, tendency to inflammatory diseases, and pains.
2. Taurus: Diphtheria, croup, apoplexy, goitre, diseases of the cerebellum, cervical vertebrae. Planets deposited in Taurus will oppose the sign Scorpio. Hence they also cause venereal diseases, piles, fistula, and constipation. Irregular menses and troubles thereby.
3. Gemini: Pulmonary diseases, oesinophilia, dry cough, pneumonia, bronchitis, pleurisy, asthma, inflammation of pericardium, affections of the hands, and tuberculosis.
4. Cancer: Pain in the stomach, gas trouble, indigestion, cough, hiccough, dropsy, melancholia, hypochondria, hysteria, jaundice, gall stones.
5. Leo: Regurgitation of blood, palpitation, aneurism, feeling giddy, faintings, spinal meningitis, curvature of the spine, arteriosclerosis, angina pectoris, anaemia, and hydraemia.
6. Virgo: Tapeworm, roundworm, hookworm, malnutrition, peritonitis, interference with the absorption of the chyle, typhoid, cholera, appendicitis, loose motion, and Vitamin B deficiency.
7. Libra: Polyuria, suppression of the urine, inflammation of the uterus, Bright's disease, lumbago, rheumatic pains, eczema, skin diseases, affection of the vasomotor system, kidney, appendicitis, and hernia.
8. Scorpio: Affection of the bladder, coliform infection, trouble in the urethra and generative organs, rectum, colon, the prostate gland, nasal catarrh, adenoids, trouble in the womb, ovaries, venereal diseases, irregularities of the menses, leucorrhoea, and renal stone.
9. Sagittarius: Affections of the hips, thighs, femur, ileum, locomotor ataxia, sciatica, rheumatism, diseases in the hip. Also pulmonary troubles, fracture of collar bone, and varicose veins.
10. Capricorn: Affects the skin, the patella, kneecap, and the knee, stomach, eczema, crysipelas, leprosy, leucoderma, digestive disturbances, rheumatism, chills, gout, neuralgia, melancholia, and blood disorders.
11. Aquarius: Affects the ankles, the limbs, varicose veins, sprain in the ankle, dropsy, irregularity of the functioning of the heart, skin, and eye diseases.
12. Pisces: Affects the feet and the toes. It also affects the intestines. Deformities of the feet, dropsy, delirium tremens due to drugs, addiction to drinks, and thereby complications.

If the Sun had been the sub-lord of the 6th cusp and is the significator of the houses 6 and 1, or if the significator of 6 is also the significator of 1 and is deposited in the constellation of the Sun and if the Sun had been in the following signs then the native will suffer from any of the following types of diseases:

1. Aries (Sun): Aphasia, loss of conscience, brain fever, cerebral haemorrhage, meningitis, cerebral anaemia or congestion of the blood, faintings, headaches, thrombosis etc.
2. Taurus (Sun): Quinsy, diphtheria, polyps of the nose, eye trouble
3. Gemini (Sun): Pleurisy, Eosinophilia, bronchitis, hyperaemia of the lungs.
4. Cancer (Sun): Anemia, dropsy, dyspepsia, gastric ulcer.
5. Leo (Sun): Palpitation of the heart, backache, spinal affections and eye trouble.
6. Virgo (Sun): No proper digestion and assimilation, peritonitis, typhoid, dysentery.
7. Libra (Sun): Bright’s disease, eruptions of the skin, boils.
8. Scorpio (Sun): Renal calculus, genital system disturbed, urinary trouble, menstrual difficulties, affections of the uterus and ovary.
9. Sagittarius (Sun): Sciatica, paralysis of the limbs, pulmonary diseases.
10. Capricorn (Sun): Rheumatism, skin affection, digestive disturbances.
11. Aquarius (Sun): Varicose veins, dropsy, poor circulation, palpitation of the heart.
12. Pisces (Sun): Perspiration of the feet, intestinal troubles typhoid fever.

If the Moon had been the sub-lord of the 6th cusp and is the significator of the houses 6 and 1, or if the significator of 6 is also the significator of 1 and is deposited in the constellation of the Moon and if the Moon had been in the following signs then the native will suffer from any of the following diseases:

1. Aries (Moon): Insomnia, headache, lethargy and weak eyes.
2. Taurus (Moon): Sore throat, eye trouble, also menstrual complaint.
3. Gemini (Moon): Catarrh of the lungs, asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, rheumatism in the arms, sprain and pains in the shoulders.
4. Cancer (Moon): Chronic ailment in the stomach leading to cancer, dropsy, obesity, bloating digestive disturbances, epilepsy.
5. Leo (Moon): Backache, disturbed circulation, convulsions, heart trouble, eye defect.
6. Virgo (Moon): Bowels disorder, abdominal tumours, dysentery, peritonitis.
7. Libra (Moon): Bright's disease, abscess of the kidneys, uraemia, headache, insomnia.
8. Scorpio (Moon): Disturbed mensus, bladder troubles, hydrocele, genito-urinary disturbances, throat troubles.
9. Sagittarius (Moon): Affections of the blood, hip disease, femur fracture, asthma.
10. Capricorn (Moon): Rheumatism, lack of synovial fluid, skin eruptions, poor digestive disturbances.
11. Aquarius (Moon): Varicose veins, ulcers of the leg, dropsy, hysteria, fainting and heart trouble.
12. Pisces (Moon): Either drinks much or ever used to take drugs. Tender feet, varieties of disorders in the abdomen.

If Mars is the sub-lord of the sixth cusp and is the significator of houses 6 and 1, or if the significator of 6 is also the significator of 1 and is deposited in the constellation of Mars, and if Mars is in the following signs, then the native will suffer from the following types of diseases:

1. Aries (Mars): Sunstroke, cerebral haemorrhage, congestion, thrombosis, brain fever, delirium, shooting pain in the head, insomnia, wounds or boils in the head, inflammation of the kidney, renal haemorrhage, renal calculi.
2. Taurus (Mars): Mumps, enlarged or inflamed or septic tonsils, suffocation, adenoids, diphtheria, polyps, nose-bleeding, goitre, inflammation of the larynx, excessive menstrual flow, scalding urine, venereal ulcers, enlargement of the prostate gland, stranguary.
3. Gemini (Mars): Haemorrhage of the lungs, pneumonia, bronchitis cough, wounds and fractures in the arms, collar bone, fracture in the femur, sciatica.
4. Cancer (Mars): Inflammation, ulceration, haemorrhage of the stomach, dyspepsia.
5. Leo (Mars): Muscular rheumatism, especially in the back, enlargement of the heart, palpitation, pain in the heart, suffocation, fainting, inflammation of the pericardium.
6. Virgo (Mars): Typhoid, inflammation of the bowels, peritonitis, worms, diarrhoea, cholera, ventral hernia, appendicitis.
7. Libra (Mars): Inflammation of the kidneys, excess of urine, haemorrhage of the kidneys, renal stones, brain fever, sunstroke, pains in the head.
8. Scorpio (Mars): Excessive menses, profuse bleeding, scalding urine, gravel renal stones, inflammation and ulceration of the uterus and ovaries, vagina, urethra, enlargement of prostate gland, stricture and stranguary, tonsils, larynx, nosebleeding.
9. Sagittarius (Mars): Fracture of the femur, dislocation, sciatica and ulcers of the thighs, pneumonia, bronchitis cough.
10. Capricorn (Mars): Carbuncles, erysipelas, smallpox, chicken pox, measles, pimples, itches, inflammatory skin diseases, dyspepsia, ulcerated stomach.
11. Aquarius (Mars): Varicose veins, fracture of the leg, blood poisoning, heart failure, fainting, palpitation of the heart.
12. Pisces (Mars): Deformities of the feet, accidents to them, corns, bunions and perspiring feet, ventral hernia, inflammation of the bowels, diarrhoea.

If the sub-lord of the sixth cusp is Mercury or if Mercury is significator of the sixth house and also the significator of the first, or if the significator of the sixth and also the first house be deposited in the constellation of Mercury, and if Mercury is deposited in:

1. Aries (Mercury): Brain fever, headache, vertigo, neuralgia, nervous disorders of the kidney, lumbago.
2. Taurus (Mercury): Stuttering, hoarseness and deafness, nervous affections of the genitourinary system.
3. Gemini (Mercury): Gouty arthritis, bronchitis, asthma, asphyxiation, pleurisy, nervous pain in the hip.
4. Cancer (Mercury): Nervous indigestion, phlegm, flatulence, drunkenness.
5. Leo (Mercury): Pain in the back, fainting, palpitations of the heart.
6. Virgo (Mercury): Flatulence, short breath, nervous debility.
7. Libra (Mercury): Suppression of the urine, renal paroxysms, lumbago, vertigo, nervous headache, eye trouble.
8. Scorpio (Mercury): Pain in the bladder and genitals, menstrual trouble, stuttering, deafness.
9. Sagittarius (Mercury): Pain in the hips and thighs, cough, asthma, pleurisy.
10. Capricorn (Mercury): Rheumatism, pain in the knee, difficulty to bend, pain in the back, skin disease, melancholy, nervous indigestion, flatulence.
11. Aquarius (Mercury): Shooting and gnawing pains, varicose veins, corrupt blood, palpitation and neuralgia of the heart.
12. Pisces (Mercury): Gout in the feet, general weakness, lassitude, worry, tuberculosis, deafness.

(Similarly for Jupiter, Venus and Saturn we have to predict.)
## On Blindness
The planets which are said to give vision or cause blindness are Moon, Sun, and Venus. Sun and Moon throw light and remove darkness. As regards Venus, in Hindu Mythology it is said that Venus is the Priest or the Preceptor of the Demons. It is presumed to be without one eye, as it is said that one eye was affected by Lord Vishnu when he took the Avathar of “Vamana”. Hence if one is to be blind, one should run the period of Sun or Moon or Venus or those deposited in their constellations or any planet deposited in the constellation of the occupant or owner of the second house and sub of the significator of the twelfth house who is connected with Sun or Moon or Venus. This is Krishnamurti Padhdhati.

But according to traditional astrology there are various rules and let me quote a few of the many. After reading, you will find them to be very general; we should be blind and deaf according to these rules.

1. If the lord of the Lagna is conjoined with Sun and Venus and if they occupy any of the three evil houses (6, 8, or 12) one will be blind from birth itself.
2. If the two evils, Saturn and Mars, are in 5 or 9 and Rahu is in the Lagna along with an eclipsed Sun, one will be blind from birth.
3. If the lords of 1 and 2 are in 6, 8, or 12 and are conjoined with Sun and Venus, one will be born blind. (Persons born during 8 planets configuration at night between 7 and 9 PM. in Leo Lagna are not blind).
4. If Moon and Mars cause Chandramangala yoga in 6, 8, or 12, one becomes blind due to a fall.
5. Similarly, if Moon and Jupiter are conjoined (causing Gajakesari yoga) in 6, 8, or 12, one becomes blind due to sexual excesses.
6. If Sun and Moon are conjoined in 1, 3, 4, 7, or 10, one becomes blind. That is, one will use spectacles.
7. If Mars occupies the sign belonging to an evil planet which is the first, fourth, seventh, or tenth house, one is blind.
8. If one is born in Cancer or Leo and Sun is in the 7th, one becomes blind.
9. If the lords of 1, 2, and 12 conjoin Venus and all of them are together in 6, 8, or 12, one becomes blind.
10. If there is an evil planet in the second house conjoined with Venus and Moon, one is blind.
11. Malefics in houses 4 and 5 make a person blind.
12. Moon in 6, 8, or 12 receiving an aspect from a malefic causes blindness.
13. Sun and Moon in 12 not aspected by benefics cause loss of vision.
14. If one is born in Leo Lagna and Saturn or Venus occupy the Lagna, one suffers from blindness.
15. Saturn in 12, Moon in 2, and Sun in 8 cause loss of vision.
16. Moon in 6, Sun in 8, Mars in 12, and Saturn in 2 deprive one of his eyesight.
17. Saturn in the fourth house and receiving an aspect from another malefic causes loss of sight.
18. Rahu in aspect to Venus or to Lagna and is aspected by Sun makes one blind.
19. Moon and Venus in 6, 8, or 12 cause night blindness.
20. Moon, Venus, and lord of 2 in the Lagna cause night blindness.
21. Lords of 1 and 2 in 6, 8, or 12 indicate loss of eyes.
22. Mars in 12 affects the left eye, whereas Saturn in 2 affects the right eye.
23. If the Lagna is occupied by lords of 2, 6, and 10 with Venus, due to the orders of the Government, one will lose his eye (Not applicable, nowadays, thank God!).

Thus there are many more rules. Traditional Astrologers must cram these general rules and should remember all these doubtful rules at the time of application to read the result. One should not forget that there is a limit to which such rules can be committed to memory, apart from the utility of such rules in the present day conditions.

Let us see how far the above rules apply. Also how K.P. explains. The horoscope of a young child whose birthday came a few days ago is given above. The child is blind from the birth. Saturn Dasa balance at the time of birth was 5 years, 11 months, 16 days. Mars Bhukti was operating at the time of birth and Moon during Epoch.
- Traditional Method:

According to the Hindu method, no evil planet is in 2 or 12 (Ketu is in Lagna Bhava). Only Jupiter is in 12 according to the traditional method. The 11th house, which is considered to be one that will invariably offer desirable results, is tenanted by Sun, Mercury, and Venus. Nowhere is it said that these planets in 11 will cause blindness. According to tradition, Saturn comes to the 7th Bhava. None of the 23 rules given above finds a place.

What do the Westerners say? Let us see what Sepharial and Carter have mentioned in their books, “The Manual of Astrology” and “Encyclopaedia of Psychological Astrology” respectively.

Sepharial (Page 78 - Physical Peculiarities) says as follows:

“The eyes: The Moon being with the Pleiades (in Taurus 29°) or in Aselli (Leo 0°) or with Antaras (In Sagittarius 8°) or the Sun in these three places afflicted by Mars from an angle, the person born may become blind. The same result follows from the Moon in opposition to the Sun, or the Moon in conjunction with the Sun, in any of these nebulous parts of the zodiac. When either the Sun or Moon is in or near Taurus 29°, Leo 6°, or Sagittarius 8° and afflicted by any planet, defective eye sight is the result, the cause differing according to afflicting planet.

The Sun in Aquarius, afflicted by Saturn, especially by the opposition or conjunction, stone blindness frequently results. The sign Aquarius corresponds to the etheric vibrations, and therefore has affinity with the sense of sight. The Sun and Moon being in opposition from Aries and Libra give weak sight, and sometimes sore eyes. The same if the Sun or Moon be in Aries and afflicted by Mars or Saturn.

Pluto rising, squared by the Sun and Moon will also cause weak sight and accentuate liability to blindness, more especially if the signs Taurus, Leo, or Aquarius are involved.

If a malefic planet occupies any of the nebulous parts of the Zodiac already referred to, and afflict the Sun or Moon by aspect then danger of blindness will arise from an accident, more particularly if the malefic be elevated above the luminary. In this matter it is better to have the Moon afflicted than the Sun, for it gives greater hope of relief.

Sight (Eye) (Carter): Visual defects are said to occur when the luminaries are afflicted in or from the nebulous parts of the Zodiac. It need hardly be said that the analogical connection between nebula and clouded sight upon which this tradition be based, must not be taken as the only foundation of the thesis, which is well supported by the facts. The following parts of the zodiac especially have this effect: 8° Gemini — Sagittarius (Aldebaran and Antares); 6° Leo — Aquarius (the Aselli); 3° Cancer — Capricorn; 29° Taurus — Scorpio (the Pleiades). It will be noted that not all of these are coincident with notable nebulae. Affliction in the centre of mutable signs is very common. Strong bad aspects involving these areas and the luminaries, especially if in angles, are very liable to cause serious trouble.

As ascending signs, Gemini, Aquarius, and Capricorn probably most often have defective sight. Gemini has often very quick and keen vision, but there is generally some defect of focus, etc. The luminaries in strong mutual affliction nearly always cause unequal sight with the two eyes. Numerous examples are given in various text-books.

It should be borne in mind that Mercury has much to do with the entire nervous system, of which the eyes are the most developed and exposed part, and afflictions to this planet often cause myopia. Squinting is usually indicated by Mercury afflicted Mars or Uranus, and perhaps by Neptune if a Mars sign is involved.

Cataract: It would seem that the horoscope features mentioned under sight will usually appear more or less prominently and an affliction of Mercury from Neptune is common. This is for cataract.

K.P.: Second house shows right eye; 12th house indicates left eye. Disease is indicated by the sixth house; 8th the danger, 12th the defect. As per Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Ketu is in 12 in the above example chart. Any planet in the constellation of Ketu shows the defect, and depending on the nature of the planet and the houses signified by it, the nature of the defect is to be ascertained. Saturn is in Aswini; Mercury and Venus are in Makam, in Ketu star. Therefore these three planets denote defect only when the 12th cusp sub lord denotes disease or defect.

The 12th cusp is in Sun's star, Moon sub. Moon is in 6th house as per K.P. But tradition says that Moon is in 7. Hence one can expect disease or defect. As nodes offer the result of the planet by which they are aspected, Ketu has to give the results of Moon also as Moon aspects Ketu. Further, Ketu is in Moon’s constellation. As Moon and Sun are the luminaries giving light to us, and when Moon is spoiled by being the sub-lord of the 12th cusp and is in 6, vision is affected. The epoch of the child was during Saturn Dasa Moon sub period. As Saturn by nature is a planet for deficiency and Moon is for vision, the child has no perfection in the development of the ocular system during intra-uterine life. Therefore, if the sub-lord of the 12th cusp is in 6, the house of disease, and if the sub-lord is in the constellation of the planet occupying or owning 6, 8, or 12, it is definite that one will have the defect from the time when the significators conjointly operate. If Saturn Dasa Moon Bhukti is to operate at some age, then the child will become blind then.

Any Cure: The dasas that are to run are Saturn, Mercury, Ketu, and Venus. Ketu is in 12 in the constellation of Moon in 6. Saturn, Mercury, and Venus are in Ketu star. Hence, cure is out of question.

Longevity of the child: Saturn Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti, Venus Anthra, Mercury Shookshma is anxious, i.e. around August 1973.

## (Health and Heart)

Heart means the organ of the body which receives both the pure and impure blood and circulates throughout the body to carry the food and to bring back the waste in the system. It is both a sump well getting filled with pure and wholesome/liquid and cesspool receiving the deoxidized blood. Also it is the pumping set. Heart means affection also.

### Hindu system

Mr. Podumanai Chomadri in Jatakadesa marga refers to each part of the body and advises which part we have to judge to note the disease or defect of an organ. Divide each sign into three equal parts so that each extends to 10° dec. Always count from the Lagna sign.

First decanate: i.e. first ten degrees indicate from the Lagna sign:

1. Head
2. Right eye
3. Right ear
4. Right nostril
5. Right cheek
6. Right jaw
7. Mouth
8. Left jaw
9. Left cheek
10. Left nostril
11. Left ear
12. Left eye

Second decanate: i.e. 10° to 20° degree in each sign counted from the Lagna sign:

1. Neck
2. Right shoulder
3. Right arm
4. Right portion of body
5. Right side of heart
6. Right side of the chest
7. Navet portion
8. Left chest
9. Left side of the heart
10. Left side of the body
11. Left arm
12. Left shoulder

Third decanate: i.e. when counted from the lagna sign in each sign 20° degrees to 30° degrees represent in order, Pelvis, generative system, Right testicle, Right thigh, Right knee, Right leg calf muscle, both the legs, left calf muscle, left patella, left thigh, left testicle and at last the Anus.

The above is the same given by Sri Ramadayalu in Sankedanidhi; in Chapter 4. Slokas 124 and 125. Kalidas in Uttarakalamritha says that Moon denotes Heart whereas Sun and Mars denote blood. Prithuyasa in Horasara states that Moon in Aquarius will cause heart disease and also that when it is in Aquarius at birth and when its dasa is running one will develop heart disease. Mantraeswara in Paladeepika says that Rahu causes the palpitation of the heart. He says that the character of one’s heart, meaning affection, etc., is to be judged from Moon.

Thus there are various statements and before one takes a decision to follow any, his next birth will approach. All westerners are of the same opinion that the 5th house represents heart and Sun indicates heart. Other planets connected with Sun and afflicting Sun denotes the various types of the disease.

Mr. Parimal Purkayastha in his book “Indian Astrology and Diseases” appears to have a compromise. He says “Heart diseases are disordered action of heart...Karkataka rasi is the sea of heart in natural zodiac. Fourth house governs the same. Moon is Karaka for heart and sun rules the heart diseases.” He adds “So the affliction of Sun, Moon, Mars, Karkat rasi, fourth house, lord of 4th house etc., and any relation to any of them with 6th house, lord of the 6th house, Kanya rasi or with disease inflicting house or planet, give rise to the disease of the heart.”

What does Krishnamurti Padhdhati say?

1. Lagna shows health. It does not mean that it guarantees good health. It depends on the sub-lord of the Ascendant. i.e., If the sub-lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation of the significator of 6 or 8 or 12 then one suffers from disease or faces danger or is hospitalized.
2. 6th house indicates disease. It affects one's health.
3. 8th house threatens danger.
4. 12th house is for hospitalization.

Significators of the 6th indicate disease in their conjoined periods or sub-periods. In this chart given below the Lagna is in 25° 6 minutes in Leo. It is in Venus constellation and Mercury sub. What does Mercury indicate and what he will give in his time. He is the significator of the houses 12, 1, 2 and 11. Hence Mercury shows that one will be in bed as it is the significator of 12 and since it is in Leo due to heart disease. As it is Mercury, it may be neuro-circulatory Asthenia or nervous disease of the heart. Saturn aspecting Mercury denotes that it will be a chronic one.

Sixth house is unoccupied. It is owned by Saturn and Saturn alone is in its constellation. During its period there will be difficulty in the pulmonary system. 8th house is occupied by Moon and Ketu. Sun, Moon and Mars are all in Ketu star and no planet is in Moon’s star. 12th house is occupied by Sun and Mars and owned by Moon. Therefore this native is to run according to his chart dasas of Venus, Sun, Moon and Mars. All these are to cause disease and danger.

### Cure any! When! What Treatment!

Cure is to be seen from the 5th and the 11th houses. Jupiter, Mercury (5th & 11th house owner respectively) and Venus conjoined with Jupiter alone can cause the cure and it will be during Venus Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra. It will be in July 1976 when Sun transits in Punarvasu in the 11th house. Sun, Mars and Mercury in the same sign indicate that he will be cured by a surgeon (Sun Dhanvantry; Mars Surgery).

## Will stammering, disappear!

The twelve signs of the Zodiac rule certain parts of the body. One should not ignore that each sign has also subsidiary dominion over the part of the body denoted by the sign 180 away, i.e. the opposite sign. Max Heindel and Augusta Foss Heindel have said affliction of Gemini may cause bronchitis or weaken the arms and shoulders, but sciatica, a Sagittarius disease, may also result.

Taurus rules the throat; it has great sympathy with Scorpio, the sign that rules the generative organs, hence we note the change of voice in boys at the time of puberty; also, woman, when she forsakes the path of chastity and leads a life of debauch, acquires a coarser voice. Taurus rules the larynx, but Mercury governs the air which stirs the vocal cords to vibrations. There is a similar relation between Taurus (ruling the vocal organs) and Mercury (ruling the air which passes through the larynx) as between instrument and player. If Taurus (and Scorpio) are unafflicted, the vocal organ is in good condition, but an afflicted Mercury may nevertheless cause a functional disorder of the speech.

In the following two horoscopes, let us see how the speech is affected. There is no free flow of speech. There is the impediment. It is a defect. It is not a disease. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, one is to judge the sub-lord of the 2nd cusp. (Because among twins, one is an orator; the other stammers. Planets, Bhavas, everything remain in the same position. Only the cusps of each house change. Professor Krishnamurti has discovered this truth which neither the savants of Western countries nor the saints of our India had so far thought of or taught to us.)

Professor Krishnamurti says if the sub-lord of the 2nd cusp is Mercury, one speaks a lot, best fitted for insurance agent, salesman, propagandist, etc. If the sub-lord is Mars, one will be blunt and outspoken; if it is Saturn, he speaks a little and he drags on; if Jupiter, wise talk; if Venus, mostly the talk will be about the other sex or sexual life. If it is Rahu or Ketu, defect in speech. If Rahu or Ketu is in 12, defect in vision; if they are in 2, defect in speech.

Venus Dasa balance 15 years 1 month 24 days. Second cusp is in the constellation of a watery planet and sub of Ketu (Mute signs are watery signs, Voice signs are airy signs). Hence note where Ketu is. It is in the second sign. It has to signify 2nd house result also. Rahu which is in the opposite sign is in Ketu sub. Therefore, stammering must continue till Rahu Dasa Ketu Bhukti is over. As the dasa lord receives beneficial aspect from Jupiter, Rahu itself will start improving one’s speech by reducing stammering. Rahu Dasa Venus Bhukti Jupiter Anthra onwards, stammering will disappear. i.e. November 1970, when Sun transits in Venus sign, Rahu star.

2nd cusp is in Saturn sign Jupiter star and Ketu sub. Further, Rahu is to offer the 24th house results also. Hence there is stammering. Mars afflicting Ketu or 2nd house by conjunction or aspect, the person takes much pain to speak out. If Jupiter conjoins or aspects, it is by Divine Grace, one will have the cure.