## Retirement - When?
Houses 2, 6, and 10 indicate service. So 12th house to the above i.e. 1, 5, and 9 show end of service or retirement.

Signification of 1, 5, 9:
- Saturn is in 1 and Mercury is in Saturn's star. 
- Sun is owner of 1 and no planets in Sun's star. 
- No planet in 5. Jupiter is the owner. Mars is in Jupiter's star. 
- Moon and Kethu are in 9 - No body in Moon's star. Venus and Jupiter are in Kethu's star. 
- Rahu also to be taken as Significator as it represent Venus and also aspected by Saturn and Moon. 
- So all the nine planets come as significators. Remember nodes are stronger than planets.

At the time of retirement (normally around 60 years of age) he will be running Jupiter dasa Saturn Bhukti (from 28.5.79). Among the significators, Kethu is the strongest and hence choose Kethu Anthra. 
So at the time when Sun transits in the sign governed by Jupiter (dasa Lord) in the star Uthrapadra (Bukthi Lord) and Kethu Sub (Anthara lord), on or around 21-3-1980 he will retire from service.

## Gain by Lottery - Luck
Sir, when I wrote a letter to you last month asking you to explain how one could be honoured at a time when one had sadesathi (seven and-half), I had, in fact, my horoscope in my mind, as, in Bombay all are frightening me by saying that I am having 7 1/2 years Saturn.

The chart is as under:
You may remember that when you visited Bombay in April, 1960, you predicted that I should have gains without pains on various occasions in my life and one of the dates was in December, 1964 inspite of the so-called sade-Sati. It is really a pleasant surprise that I have got Rs.500/- as a prize for the prize bond of Rs.5/- denomination purchased by me on 16-4-1960 (on your advice) and the draw was held in Bombay on 1-12-64. The number of my prize bond is A.H. 268076. This is for your information.

Answer:
Very happy to know that you had come by fortune and thereby the prediction also has proved to be true. Sade-Sati is an excuse for the astrologer with half-baked knowledge, to explain the never ending difficulties and worries of native! It is a meaningless ‘Slogan’.

You are now running Rahu Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Sun Anthra. Actually you received the cash on Monday ruled by Moon, in Swathi Star, ruled by Rahu. Why?

Houses 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11, receiving favourable aspects promise victory over enemies; success in litigation; win in competition and gain in lottery, games, etc. 5th house shows the mind to speculate; the tendency, the opportunity to bet, etc. Houses 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 12 receiving good aspects are adverse, promise gain.

The fifth house is Cancer. It is owned by Moon. It was in Sravanam star, governed by Moon itself. So Moon gives you the mind to speculate. Moon was in Capricorn, in the eleventh sign and the 11th Bhava. Therefore, gain without much effort is assured during its sub-period.

Sun owns Leo, the 6th house. It is in its own constellation. What is the 6th house? Many, by mistake, think that it indicates only debts and diseases. They miss to note that it causes luck also. 7th house shows those who make similar attempts in speculation-your competitors. Is not the 6th house, twelve to 7? Does it not indicate loss to them? Therefore, loss to competitors means gain to you. During Sun Bhukti, you had promotion.

Further, Sun in 11, in Capricorn, will ever offer you success. Rahu, the beneficial node, representing Jupiter was in Pisces; in your ascendant. It was in Revathi star in the constellation of Mercury who occupies the 10th house and receives the aspect from Jupiter. Mercury, as lord of 4, if it would have been in 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 or 12 to your lagna, will cause loss to you and show disappointment. But planets in 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11 indicate gains to you.

Moon and Sun are in 11. Therefore, you had this, as predicted, during Rahu Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Sun Anthra on a day governed by Moon and at the time when Moon transited in Rahu’s star, Swathi.

While Saturn was transiting in the other constellation of Rahu- Sathabisha, you received the prize. Saturn is lord of 11 and 12. It shows that you will gain and at once make purchases or spend away.

Whenever one tries to find results by transit, it is necessary to note primarily the transit of the Dasanatha, Bhuktinadha, etc. and then, of all other planets. You are running Rahu Dasa. Rahu is transiting (according to Krishnamurti system) in Taurus, in Mrigasirisha star governed by Mars and in Saturn sub ruled by Saturn.

Mars owns the second house and Saturn the 11th. So you gain. Mars owns the 9th house; Saturn rules the 12th; so you make a long journey to a holy place. Mars owns the 2nd house and Saturn owns the 12th. Hence, you make purchases. Mars owns the 9th house and Saturn the 11th house. So you, renew the friendship and you enjoy your life.

During the next year, such changes will not repeat. But after Rahu Dasa ends on 17-1-1966, during Jupiter Dasa, Saturn Bhukti, as I already predicted, after March 1968 you will have fortune to a greater extent. As Mercury’s sign Gemini is occupied by Jupiter, and Gemini is the third sign of the Zodiac, try lottery. Never go to races.
## Luck by Races
The ascendant was Libra. There was sudden gain during the period when he was running Moon Dasa, Moon Bhukti and Jupiter Anthra, on 8th May, 1955. But the money was received on 9th May, 1955 (Monday, Jyeshta star, and in Cancer lagna).

Given below are two charts, namely, (1) the native's birth chart and (2) the chart for the moment when he received money. Generally it is said that houses 2 and 5 offer one the opportunity to make money by speculation, lottery, betting etc. The other houses do not indicate such sudden gains. If that is so, how can Moon in its dasa especially, in its bhukti, give gains without pains? 10th house indicates profession. Moon rules the 10th house. It also occupies its own rasi. How then has it given unexpected fortune?

The prediction was based on Krishnamurti Padhdhati. A planet may own any house. It may occupy any house. But the sources of one's income and his efforts in any direction are indicated by the lord of the sub-portion in the star. Moon was in Pushyam star ruled by Saturn. Pushyam extends from 3 degrees 20 minutes to 16 degrees 40 minutes in Katak. But Moon was in 13 degree 2 minutes. If you refer to the table you will note that between 12 degrees 53 minutes and 14 degree 53 minutes in the star Pushya ruled by Saturn, Rahu rules the sub. Therefore Moon is under the sway of both Saturn and Rahu. Saturn is lord of 5 and it is in the second bhava though in the third sign Dhanus. Hence, it gives the mind to speculate. Seven planets are in the sign Scorpio and also in the second bhava. It is a truism that Rahu or Kethu will ever be stronger than the lord of the house in which they are posited and also the planets with which they are conjoined. Hence, Rahu in Vrischika is to give the results of the lord of the sign in which it was posited (which in this case is Mars), and also the results of the other planets with which it was conjoined. Rahu is stronger than the other planets in the second house and its lord, Mars. As Moon was in Saturn's star Pushyam and the sub of Rahu, Moon derives the power to give its results through the affairs indicated by the 5th and the 2nd house.

When Moon's dasa was on, the planet in the Moon's star or Moon’s sub can offer those results indicated by Moon. The only planet thus gaining the strength of Moon is Jupiter which was in Scorpio (Vrischika) in its own star Visakam and in the sub of Moon.
If one is to gain in a competition or in betting, the opponent will lose equally. The opponent is indicated in all horoscopes by the seventh cusp and house. Loss is indicated by the 12th house. Therefore, the 12th house to the seventh, is the 6th house, to the native. Therefore, the lord of the 6th house and the planet in 6 will bring about loss to the opponent and the native will gain. Jupiter is the lord of the sixth house. No planet in Jupiter star. Hence, Jupiter and Moon alone can give this result. That is to bring about loss to the opponent and gain, suddenly to the native through betting etc., provided the dasa lord has anything to do with the fifth and the second houses.

According to the Udu dasa system and according to Gochara, why should he have the beneficial result on 9th May, 1955? All along, it was discussed that the planets, Moon and Jupiter, promise gains by speculation. That Swabhukti will be indifferent or bad, is generally predicted by astrologers who simply reproduce the slokas without doing research based on actual facts. It should be noted that during the time when Jupiter transits the sign ruled by the lord of dasa, the dasanatha will confer favourable results. Therefore, in the present case, at the time Jupiter transits in Cancer ruled by Moon, lucky time has to be predicted. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the sub-portion should be ruled by Moon. Actually on 8th and 9th May, 1955, Jupiter was in 3 degrees 25 to 30 minutes in Cancer.

One may ask why this native should not again similarly secure such again in Moon dasa, Jupiter sub-period and Moon or Jupiter sub-period. He is correct but hasty. He has to note whether, at that time Jupiter will transit in the sign ruled by dasanatha Moon or Bhuktinatha Guru. This position will not be repeated. But during that period, the native had larger income from his permanent possessions and improvement in service.

Always the dasa system, and Gocharam, will agree. One will enjoy the results without fail if K.P. is followed. At the moment the native received the cash, the lagna was the first degree in Cancer and Moon was in Jyeshta Mercury's star in Mars sign Vrischika. The day was Monday ruled by the dasanatha Moon.
## Finance by Borrowing

Loan is raised either when one spends or has to spend more than what he has on hand as also his income. Therefore, to know why and when debt is incurred, the horoscopes are to be examined to ascertain how money is earned or received and the cause of one’s necessity to spend as well as the extent to which he is to meet the expenses.

Second house indicates one’s bank position, cash on hand and readily cashable, movable property. Tenth house shows one’s profession and inheritance. Eleventh house is the balance sheet indicating one’s net profit. One may earn money through the sources indicated by houses 1 to 10 (i.e., 1st house, by his exertion; 2nd self-acquisition; 3rd through brother, short journey, touring, agency, editing; 4th education or transport department or through mother; 5th through speculation, cinema, music, children; 6th by serving others; 7th by business and through partners; 8th by insurance, legacy; 9th long journey, connection with foreigners; 10th through his own profession, business or ancestral property.) The house 12 indicates the expenses. Hence the benefits from houses 1 to 10 are added together and the loss from house 12 is deducted; the net balance is called the profit which is shown by the 11th house.

Generally, houses 2, 10 and 11 are studied to understand how one makes money: 6th house denotes why, when, and the extent to which one borrows; 8th house indicates either loss and misery or unexpected gains; or clearing off loan or lending money; 12th house indicates one’s expenses, investments, repayment of loan or lending money, etc. Therefore, a careful consideration of the houses 6, 8 and 12 will indicate one’s commitments, expenses, loss and the necessity to borrow.

The Ascendant indicates the person who borrows. The 7th house from his Lagna denotes the gentleman or the lady or the banker who advances the loan. Sixth house denotes debts. What is a loan? It is an income to the person. His bank position improves by borrowing. To the person lending money, the sixth house is the twelfth (7th being his ascendant). i.e., it is a deterioration in his bank position to the extent to which he advances the loan. Therefore, debt is the receipt of money by the person who borrows and expenses to one who lends.

As parting with money for expenses may be to discharge one's debts, 12th house of a person shows clearing off loans or part payment towards the debts already incurred. Is not the 12th house, the sixth from the 7th? Hence, to the native who borrows from this person or who receives back the loan already lent, the 12th house indicates the receipt to the man with whom the transaction is done and who is indicated by the 7th house.

Hence the 6th house indicates raising of loan (receipt of money) and the 12th house denotes repayment of loan or expenses. Kalidasa in Uthra-Kalamritha has said that 12th house is to be judged for clearing off loans.

What about the 8th house? The 8th house is the second to the 7th. Second house shows one’s finance, whereas 7th house denotes one with whom a transaction is done. Suppose there is an evil planet in the 8th house of a person: it means that the evil is in the second house to one who transacts. It threatens that the person with whom the money transaction is done, will lose money and there will be difficulty. But, if a benefic is in the 8th house, it promises the regaining of money with pleasure. “Sowmyae Ranthrae Dhanapthi” says Mahadeva. Everybody in this world will try to maintain prestige. None would wish to borrow unless circumstances force him to do so. If one has borrowed, he would desire to return it much earlier than the time required by him to repay.

If the sublord of 8th cusp is the significator of houses 5, 6, 8 and 12 difficulties come as a battalion and he has to face them by borrowing from his friends A to Z. But if the sublord of the 8th Cusp is the Significator of 2, 10 or 11th houses and if its period or sub-period runs, with pleasure, he returns the money.

The tenth house shows one’s profession, receipt of money, etc. Tenth house to the 7th opponent or lender is the fourth house to the native. Therefore, 4th house also indicates return of money, by the person, and the discharge of debts.

The eleventh house shows profit. The principal and the interest are indicated by the 11th house in the native’s chart if he has lent money. But if he has borrowed, the 11th to the 7th shows the return of the amount. Therefore 5th house indicates discharge of debts.

Therefore receipt of money is indicated by the houses 2, 6, 10 and 11 whereas the discharge of debts can be read from the houses 4, 5, 8 and 12.

If beneficial planets occupy, own or aspect favourably the houses 2, 10 and 11, one will make money in their periods and sub periods, in their star days and week days. So also, benefics occupying the houses 4, 5, 8 or 12 or owning or aspecting these houses, or planets in the constellation of the occupants and owners of these houses indicate the discharge of the loan in their dasa, bhukti and anthara, in their week days and star days.

Planets in 2, 10 and 11 and in the Sub of Significators of 4, 5, 8 or 12 reduce one’s income and there will be difficulty to make money. Similarly planets in 4, 5, 8 and 12 will increase the expenses if the sublord is the significator of 4, 5, 8 or 12 and they will not allow one to discharge the loan. But in their dasas and bhukties the native will suffer mental agony, anxiety, pressure, worry, depression, irritation, ill-repute, humiliation etc.

This is the scientific explanation for a few houses being considered for the raising of funds and the rest for repayment.

Now, let us find out why one has to borrow and when. When the sublord of 6th is also the Significator of 12th and associated with the houses 6, 8 or 12 the debt is incurred due to (1) one’s ill-health or the expenses of his or her partner (12th to 7th), ill-health of partner (6th to 7th), unexpected loss, (8th and 12th) investment, etc.

By association, is meant that, (a) the house may be occupied by or aspected by a planet or (b) the lord of the house may occupy the houses 6, 8 or 12 or be conjoined with them or aspected by them. The following is the chart of a person who is ever in debts.
1. Lagna is occupied by Saturn, the lord of 8, in the constellation of the lord of 6 (Punarvasu star ruled by Jupiter). The lord of Lagna is in the constellation of Jupiter, the lord of 6, occupying the 8th house. Mercury, the lord of 12, aspects the Ascendant. So, the Ascendant is occupied by the lord of 8 and aspected by the lord of 12. The lord of the Lagna is 8 in the constellation of the lord of 6. Here, the lord of Lagna is associated with the lord of 6. Lagna is associated with the lords of 8 and 12.
2. When the lord of the second house is also the Significator of 6th, 8th or 12th house, debt is caused by (a) expenses in the family, (b) medical bill for eye or throat treatment of the person, (c) danger to partner, (d) loss of a younger brother, (e) payment to mother, or (f) to one’s children at the time of their appointment or promotion, or (g) as loan to father either for his business or to meet his loss. There will not be much difficulty to raise the loan. It may be a hand loan or one kept in the suspense account.
3. When the sublord of the cusp of 3rd house, or its lord is also the Significator of 6th or 12th, the debt may be incurred due to the native’s brother; if posited in a male sign, and to sister if posited in a female sign. The lord of 3rd in a male sign and Mars in a female sign indicate expenses through both brother and sister. It may be raised to help a neighbour; or one may stand surety for another; or may borrow money to make short journeys, purchase a printing press or take up any agency or contract. Some may pledge shares, certificates and documents or earrings, necklace, bangles, rings etc., to raise the loan if the 3rd house is connected with 6th house. If however houses 8th and 12th are associated, the sale of these jewels is indicated.
4. Should the Significator of 4th and Moon be associated with house 6th, 8th or 12th, the debt may be raised either through mother or for purchase of cattle or animals. If the Significator of 4th and Mars are associated with 6th, 8th or 12th, one may borrow for the purchase of land, buildings, etc. Even raising a loan by pledging a house or land is indicated by the Significator of 4th connected with the 6th house. The lord of 4th connected with the houses 3rd, 8th or 12th indicate generally the disposal of the Property. If the lord of 6th has no connection with any benefic, but occupies the 9th house then, during the period of the lord of 4th, the property may be brought to auction, sold or appropriated by the opponent.
5. If the Significator of 5th and Jupiter are connected with houses 6th, 8th or 12th, debts are caused on account of children (their education or danger to their lives). Or one may borrow due to the loss in speculation, cinema or any other risky enterprises or love affairs.
6. If the Significator of 6th is associated with Saturn, debt is caused due to the persistent inimical activity of the opponents, or due to loss by theft, and disease. Jupiter connected with them indicates that the necessity for borrowing is due to litigation. Jupiter, Mars and Sun connected with them indicate debts due to election.
7. If the Significator of 7th and the lords of 2nd and 10th are connected with houses 6th, 8th or 12th, debt is due to the partner in business. But if Venus and the Significator of 7th are associated with 6th, 8th or 12th, the debt is caused through one’s wife. If Jupiter and Significator of 7th are connected with 6th, 8th or 12th, litigation may need a large sum of money or one may borrow to meet the expenses of the second son. Waist belts made of gold etc. may be pledged.
8. Should the Significator of 8th be associated with the houses 1st, 8th or 12th, and if a malefic also aspects, debts are caused due to enemies, danger, disease, difficulties, disharmony, dispute etc.
9. If the 9th house or the Significator of 9th is connected with the lords of 6th, 8th or 12th or the houses 6th, 8th or 12th then the necessity to borrow may be due to father, or wife’s younger brother or sister (there are people who incur debt to celebrate sister-in law's marriage), or due to his partner’s journey, or through the third child or the native going on a long journey or overseas or for higher studies.
10. If the Significator of 10th and Sun are associated with the houses 6th, 8th or 12th one may have to borrow to repay the debts left behind by father or due to business.
11. If the Significator of 11th is associated with the houses 8th or 12th the debts may be due to the native's standing surety to a friend. If the Significator of 11th and Mars are associated together with the houses 8th or 12th one may incur debts due to an elder brother. If the lord of 11th and Sun are associated with the houses 8th or 12th, one incurs debt due to his father's younger brother. If the lord of 11th, Jupiter and Venus are connected with the houses 8th or 12th, one incurs debt due to son-in-law.
12. Lord of 12th and Saturn generally cause loss by theft, fraud, deception, etc. and also due to the action of the secret enemies. People having Saturn in 12th and Mars or Kethu in 2nd, should be very careful; they should not leak out any of their secret, unlawful action, in an unguarded moment to men in power, e.g. police, Income-tax official, etc. When they run the conjoined period of Saturn in 12th, and Mars or Kethu in 2nd, they will be taken to task. Even if Saturn is in 3rd, 6th, or 10th it can throw aspect to the 12th house and bring about the sudden fall to the person. That is why, sages are of strong opinion that Saturn in the 10th house gives sudden rise in one's career only for a big pitfall, later. Also, lord of the 12th house may be the cause for borrowing money to celebrate the marriage of servants.

When? So far, why one has to borrow was discussed. Now it should be understood that the planets indicating the necessity to borrow will give the results in their dasas and bhukties and also the day, the Star on that day, the Lagna, Rasi and the constellation which will be ruled by them. (The significators will form favourable aspect with their original position at the time of birth). How many persons there are who, even after borrowing need more money and suffer just like a person who having married a girl who has not attained age continues to be mostly a bachelor.
Such persons, even in want, are born in the yoga termed as “Dharidhra yoga” i.e. the relative disposition of planets causing poverty. For them, it will be difficult even to raise funds. They have to make many attempts and at the time they receive money they get vexed and dejected as the amount received will not be sufficient. It will disappear in no time. It will be spent away. 

Such yogas are mentioned below (Hindu):

1. If the lord of lagna is connected with the lord of 7 and if the lords of 1 and 12 are in mutual exchange.
2. When the lords of 1 and 6 exchange places and Moon is aspected by the lords of the 2nd and 7th houses;
3. Lord of Lagna in the eighth house is associated with the lord of 2 or 7.
4. The Lord of Lagna in 8 is associated with the lords 2 and 7 and a malefic;
5. The lord of 5 in 6, 8 or 12, devoid of connection with a benefic;
6. The lord of 5 in 6 or 10, aspected by the lord of 2, 6, 7 or 8;
7. Natural malefics (without being the lords of 9th and 10th houses) occupy Lagna associated by lords of 2 or 7.

Dharidhra yoga means that one will continue to borrow for ever. He will have a list of those who can lend money. 5th house denotes the thought of a person. Moon indicates mind. If Moon is in 5th and is conjoined with Kethu, one will be ever planning how to raise a loan, whom to approach, etc., will somehow manage to borrow only to find that his position has not improved. This is especially true in those cases where there is no planet in 2nd or 12th to Moon, and no benefic in 4th, 7th or 10th when counted from the Moon sign.
- Hindu

Debt is also caused by the mere occupation of a rasi by certain planets and a few other connections:

1. Mars in Pisces with Sun, Moon and Saturn;
2. Mercury occupying either of the houses owned by Saturn;
3. Mercury in Taurus shows debts through relations;
4. Mars and Saturn in 12 denote debts through brothers and sisters;
5. Jupiter in 12 associated with a malefic shows that one will borrow to pay taxes;
6. Sun and Moon in 12 or Sun, Rahu and Venus in 12 show debt due to litigation;
7. Pisces, Leo or Sagittarius being the ascendant with Moon in Aquarius or Venus in Scorpio or Jupiter in the 8th house, indicate loan raised for donation, charity, endowment etc.

People, who advance loans, and also borrow money due to any of the above-mentioned causes, will have the following combinations:

1. Find out the house occupied by the lord of Lagna. Note in which Navamsa sign he was at the time of birth. Find out the lord of the Navamsa sign occupied by the lord of lagna. If the lord of the Navamsa sign occupies friend’s quarters and receives aspect from Jupiter, he will lend money.
2. Find out the lords of the navamsa signs occupied by the lords of 2 and 11. If in the rasi Kundali, birth chart, the lords of the Navamsa signs occupy a Kendhra Sthana (1, 4, 7 or 10 counted from the ascendant) he will advance the loan.

If you find the following Yogas in the horoscope of those who want you to lend money to them, be sure that you cannot have it repaid as they can never discharge the loan before they retire from service or from the world itself:

1. If, in the borrower's horoscope, the lord of 2 is debilitated or eclipsed or posited at the end of a rasi governed by a malefic;
2. Or if the lord of 2 is in 6 or 12, with the lord of 12 in 2 and the lord of 11 in any one of the three Dush Sthanas 6, 8 or 12;
3. Or the lord of Lagna in 12, malefic in 2 and the lord of 10 is associated with the lord of 11. These combinations are found in the horoscopes of a few members of the co-operative societies who will ever borrow to the maximum eligibility by way of (a) Permanent loans, (b) Emergency loan, (c) Thrift fund loan, (d) Provident Fund (e) Insurance loan, (f) Hand loan, (g) By pledging movable property and (h) By mortgaging immovable properties.

Can one discharge the loan and be free from worry?

1. Find out when he will borrow; i.e., the yogas causing the need to raise a loan, the Dasa and Bhukti of those Planets.
2. Find out whether he will live long after borrowing.
3. Find out whether there will be time enough for the periods and sub periods of the planets promising the opportunity to wash off loans, after the yoga to borrow is over.
Debt can be realized when one runs the beneficial periods of the planets occupying or owning the houses 2, 6, 10, and 11, and when one who borrowed money runs the period of the significators of 2, 6, 10, or 11 counted from his 7th house. They are 8, 12, 4, and 5 counted from the lagna of the borrower's horoscope. Benefics occupying the houses 4, 5, 8, and 12 indicate that during their periods one will clear off the debts.

If one is not able to return, will he be put into trouble? Will he lose his prestige and reputation? Or will he be drawn to civil court and even to get imprisoned? Loss of reputation, imprisonment, etc. are threatened by the malefics posited in 2, 5, 9, and 12. If Scorpio happens to be the 5th, 9th, or 12th house and Saturn be posited therein, not only will he be unable to repay, but also he may be manhandled and drawn to the court of law. His reputation will be at stake. Kalachakra dasa of the lord of the 6th house indicates similar undesirable results.

Even though a person may be born a king or a Kubera, if his lord of lagna is eclipsed, in enemy's camp, debilitated, and is in 6th, 8th, or 12th house associated with the lords of 2 and 7, without any association with a benefic, he must borrow. Similarly, a person born to a multimillionaire will borrow, if Sun and Saturn occupy the second house.

Where to go to raise a loan will be the problem. The direction in which one can go for borrowing money is indicated by (a) the rasi in which the lord of the second house is posited, (b) or by the direction of the rasi occupied by lord of 11, and (c) by the lord whose Bhukti operates. If the above lords are in direct motion, attempts made in the direction mentioned will be helpful. If however, the lords be retrograde, one can make attempts in all directions and there will be grand success in all quarters. Suppose one is born in the sign Leo as ascendant, then the lord of 2 and 11 happens to be Mercury. When one runs Mercury sub period and it was in direct motion at the time of birth, one can meet a banker in the north as Mercury indicates north direction and he will be successful only there. Even if Mercury is in the 10th house, one should try in the north. If Mercury was retrograde at the time of birth, he can try anywhere. He is sure to come out successful.

One should also consider the house (bhava) in which the lord of 1, 2, and the Bhuktinatha was. If they were in the 3rd house, he may have it from his brother or neighbour and also by executing a bond. If they were in the 4th house, his close relative or one in the same locality will lend. If in the 9th house, the banker may be a stranger or one who lives far away. If in the 11th house, elder brother or sister or a friend or father's younger brother may help. If in the 10th house, either in the office or from the officer he borrow. Or one may pledge government bonds if Mercury is in 10. If they are in the 6th house, one may take money from his subordinates as loan. The planet in the 6th house shows that one may raise a loan by pledging any of his possessions. One should judge the houses 4, 10, and 11 to redeem them; but houses 8 and 12 denote that the pledged property will be disposed of ultimately.

Here is the sincere advice to clear off one's loans easily, with pleasure:

1. Borrow an amount which is a little greater than the need; if you want Rs. 10,000 borrow Rs. 12,000.
2. Keep separately Rs. 2,000 - the excess.
3. Wait for the day when the star is either Aswini or Anuradha.
4. Select the Lagna-Aries if it is Aswini Star day or the Lagna-Scorpio, if it is Anuradha.
5. At the time, repay these 2,000 rupees as a part-payment.
6. This guarantees that you will be fortunate and repay the full amount in a very short period.
7. Or, you select either a Tuesday or a Saturday or a Sunday.
8. On that day, the thithi should be either Chathurthi or Chathurdasi.
9. Work out and ascertain in which sign Gulika will be on that day.
10. If possible, calculate the correct time and repay a part of the loan at that time, so that Gulikha is exactly in Lagna. You will be surprised to see, that you are able to clear the full loan in a very short period.
11. Or select a Saturday and let the ascendant be in a movable sign, either Aries, Cancer, Libra, or Capricorn.
12. It is always advisable to have a malefic in the 8th house to the Lagna at which time the part-payment is made.
13. Please remember that one should never lend or borrow on eclipse days when the Yoga is Vyatheepada as it threatens danger to both the borrower and banker.

Now one may ask, whether by following the advice, one can clear off the loans quickly. The answer is ‘Yes’. Everybody may try to repay at such a time. Only those who are lucky (according to their horoscope) to be free from the loan shortly, will repay knowingly or unknowingly at this hour. Experience confirms this declaration.

## Free from debts
1. When a person is born, they inherit the assets and liabilities of their parents. As years pass, even when the parents are alive, one may save separately some amount or incur debts. After the demise of one's parents, one may have to borrow if the expenses outweigh the income. One may have a decent bank position for some years, then they may have to borrow. Later they may return and clear off either part of the loan or discharge it in full. All of this depends on the dasa and bhukti which follow one after the other.
2. One deposits money in the bank when one has income more than their expenses at that time. It is indicated by the houses 2, 10, and 11. The 6th house is for borrowing and thereafter depositing. The second house is for self acquisition and bank position, the 6th house for borrowing, the 10th house for profession, and the 11th house for profit.
3. During the conjoined period of the significators of the 2nd and 6th houses, one will borrow. The 8th house threatens risk, danger, and loss or a windfall if the significator of the 8th house is also the significator of the 6th and 11th houses. The 12th house indicates expenses, purchases, donation, repayment of loan, etc. The lagna represents the person to whom the horoscope belongs, and the 7th house denotes the persons who either lend or borrow. As loan is an income to the borrower, it is the expenses or investment to the lender which is indicated by the 12th house to the 7th house. Therefore, one has to examine the 6th house for the debts.
4. Expenses include the discharge of loan. It may be a part-payment towards the debts or one may clear off the loans and be free from it. Bank overdraft is also indicated by the 6th house and discharging it is judged from the 12th house. In Uthra Kalamritha, Kalidas has said that one has to consider the 12th house for the clearance of loan.
5. As the second house denotes one's financial position, the second to the seventh shows the finance of one with whom the native transacts. Suppose there is a benefic in the 8th Bhava, it means that the person with whom one transacts is lucky during the period of the planet in 8. Generally, one regains the money that is lent to others. In a few cases, it so happens that one is to consider themselves lucky if they somehow or other have their money returned by the person who borrowed. In the latter case, the persons who borrowed will have a benefic in 8. The borrower will gain without effort, so they repay. That is why, he who lent money is lucky during the period of the benefic in the 8th house.
6. If circumstances force one, they borrow. Is there anybody who would not mind maintaining their prestige? No, everybody will try to keep up their word and maintain their family prestige, honour, etc. All will make efforts to return the amount borrowed in time. They can do so, if there is a benefic in the 8th house, especially the lord of 12. The lord of 12 in 8 will cause Vipareetha Raja yoga. Suppose Jupiter is the lord of 12, and it is in the 8th house, it can aspect one's 12th house and 2nd house. Therefore, people born in Makara-Capricorn Lagna will return their debts during Jupiter's periods and sub-periods, without strain.
7. Suppose there is an evil in the 8th house. It means that he who lends money has a malefic in the 2nd house to the 7th. As malefics in the second house threaten loss of money during its period and sub-periods, one will lend money to the native of the horoscope having a malefic in the 8th house and will be depressed, disappointed, and irritated during its period as the borrower is not able to return the loan. Those who lend money should note whether the borrower has a benefic or a malefic in 8 before lending money so that they may know where they stand.
8. These are the methods to be followed. This native is born in Libra Ascendant. Mars in Aries is in the 6th house. Jupiter owns the 6th house. Therefore, note the constellations of Mars and Jupiter. Mars rules Mrigasirisha, Chitra, and Dhanishta - Jupiter governs Punarvasu, Visaka, and Poorvapathrapatha. Find out the planets situated in the constellation of Mars and Jupiter; also, note which planets are in the sub of Mars and Jupiter. They indicate (a) the necessity to borrow money, and (b) the time of raising the loan.
9. So also note the planets occupying the constellation of the lord of 8 (Venus, a benefic) and the lord of the 12th house. Sun is Labhadhipathi, lord of 11, who is to give you profit, who is to increase your income, as it aspects the 11th house one will normally predict that you should gain and there is no necessity to borrow. But, actually you had been borrowing. Why? Because Sun was in the constellation of Jupiter, the lord of 6 and the sub of Mercury, lord of 12. Hence during the period of Sun, you will borrow from A, and repay it, then borrow from B, repay and so on.
10. Moon was in Mercury's star and Rahu sub. Hence, Moon indicates repayment by making money in your profession. Rahu in 11, in the constellation of the lord of 11 and in the sub of Moon, promises that you will have no debts in the conjoined period of Moon and Rahu.
11. As you had 7 years, 11 months, and 26 days of Mercury Dasa at birth, you enter into Moon dasa on 5-3-1964. Therefore, between 5-8-1965 and 5-2-1967 you will repay and clear off your debts. As 'A' dasa, 'B' Bhukti, 'A' Anthra will offer the result to the full extent, Moon anthra, in Moon dasa, Rahu Bhukti shows the time when you are free from debts, i.e., 20-11-1966 to 4-1-1967.
## Theft and Recovery
Madras-4, 5-2-65.

Dear Sir,

You predicted in your class in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Madras Kendhra on 8-11-64. Some of my jewels, silver articles, silk sarees and cash were stolen away from my house during the day time (between 8:15 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.). You took my horoscope and also asked me to give a number within 108. I told you 16.

In the class, you discussed and explained and your students took notes also. You said “your property is intact. All of them will be returned to you. One male and two females are involved in the theft. You will be called to identify the property after 10-1- ’65. The thief will be black in complexion. He is a young man. He will be caught by the police when he makes similar attempts. Be cheerful and thank God that you are lucky to have them back. I suggest you to have a “Godrej” or “Allwyn” or “Khira” Almirah in your house. Also, let me know in February or March, what happened.”

The thief was caught on 20-1-1965. He is a young man black in colour. He is an ex-convict. Two women were also involved. He is a dangerous K.D. Except 3 articles worth about 3 sovereigns, all the gold jewels, all silk sarees and all silver vessels etc., were recovered from him. Articles worth about 6 sovereigns were melted away by him and he made two pairs of bangles.

I am glad to say that the thief was convicted and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for four years. The stolen property worth Rs. 3,000 was handed over to me. I place on record my deep and sincere appreciation of your correct prediction about the stolen property.

I thank you immensely because your uncanny prediction, boldly declared in the presence of nearly 60 students, in such a detail, gave me and my wife sufficient strength to withstand the shock when we were worried about the loss of property and with that mental strength due to the faith in your prediction, we were able to wait calmly till the thief was caught.

Yours faithfully, 

(Sd) S. Govindan

On 8-11-64, the map of the heavens was as follows. The number given was 16. Therefore, divide 16 by 9. The quotient is 1 and the remainder is 7. Therefore, the first sign Aries is over and the 7th pada in Taurus is the Lagna.

Because the Zodiac is 360°, it is divided by 12 spokes. Therefore, each arc is 30° in longitude and they are called Rasi, sign, or solar mansion. The same Zodiac is divided into 27 equal parts; each is 13° 20' and each is called an asterism, star, constellation, or Nakshathra. Each star is divided into 4 equal parts and each part called pada or quarter will be 3° 20’. Hence, the Zodiac is divided into 108 equal parts. And, the number mentioned by the querist is that pada counted from Aries 0° or Mesha 0° or Aswini Nakshathra, first pada.

Hence, No. 16 is to be divided by 4 (four padas in each star): 16 can be divided by 4 times and the remainder will be zero, i.e., 4 full stars, i.e., Aswini, Bharani, Karthika, and Rohini. A doubt arises whether to take Rohini 4th pada or Mrigasira first quarter. As 16th part of the 108 divisions is to be taken, take Rohini 4th quarter.

One should divide the number given by the querist in such a way that there is some remainder, either 1, 2, 3, or 4. So, 16 is to be divided by 4 only thrice and should have a remainder of 4. Therefore, number 16 means Rohini 4th pada, i.e. 20° to 23° 20' in Taurus. The Navamsa Lagna is Cancer, a movable sign.

Lagna and the aspect to either the ascendant or to the lord of the ascendant indicates whether one can have a favourable answer from the astrologer or not. Moon and the aspect of Moon indicates the nature of the query, the case of his worry, etc. Taurus rises. Its ruler is Venus. It appears to be debilitated in the rasi but it is exalted in Navamsa. It is 108° away from the ascendant, i.e., the aspect from the lord of the Lagna to the Ascendant is favourable. Therefore, first tell the querist that No. 16 promises him “Good Luck”. This is the duty of the astrologer.

Then analyse, think loud, make him understand that you apply the science in full and give your prediction without any doubt. Never use the words “Likely”, “May”, “I think”, etc. Moon is in Sagittarius. No doubt, it is the 8th sign. But it is in Moolam second quarter. So it comes to 7th Bhava or house as the Lagna is between 20° and 23° 20’. Moon in the 7th house indicates litigation or theft. Moon in Ketu’s Star Moolam and in conjunction with Ketu shows that the querist is confused and is very much worried.

As the querist has already informed that he had lost his property, it is for the astrologer to find out (a) whether the person will have the property back or not, (b) the description of the thief or thieves and (c) the time when he can recover the stolen property. One's possessions are indicated by the 2nd, 4th, and 11th houses. The second house shows the movable property, the 4th house signifies the immovable property, and the 11th house denotes one’s profit and savings. Lord of 2nd, Mercury should indicate his readily cashable possessions and other movable properties. As the node Rahu is in Gemini (though in Lagna Bhava) Rahu, automatically becomes the agent of Mercury. Hence, Rahu indicates his movable property.

Sun, the lord of the 4th house, is in 6th. 6th house is 12th to 7th. Hence, it indicates loss to the thief: at least no gains, no benefit to the thief by Sun who denotes permanent possession. Actually, the person has not lost any property-land or building. 11th house is Pisces. No planet is in Pisces. Jupiter rules the sign. It is in the 12th house. So, his saving is lost, but it is retrograde. So, the loss is only for a temporary period. If Jupiter would have been in direct motion and if the 11th house is unoccupied, he can never get the lost property. A planet, in direct motion, gives a result and confirms it. A planet, in retrograde, will produce a result which will fall through when it takes direct motion.

Jupiter owns two houses, Sagittarius and Pisces. Rahu or Ketu in either of the two, is stronger than Jupiter. Ketu is in Sagittarius. Therefore, Ketu is stronger than Jupiter. It is ever retrograde. It is in the second sign to the seventh Cusp and is in the 7th house (i.e. Lagna of the thief. Ketu who is to represent Jupiter as lord of 2nd to the 7th house is in the thief's Lagna Bhava in retrograde). Hence, Ketu indicates that the thief cannot have the property as his own, for ever. Therefore, the querist will get back the stolen property, without fail. So, declare that the lost ones will surely be recovered.

Similarly, consider the 11th house (house of profit) to the thief i.e. 11th to the 7th. Scorpio is the 7th house. Its ruler is Mars. According to the Hindus, Mars aspects Scorpio. Hence, Mars, a masculine planet owning the seventh house, strong in triplicity, aspecting the seventh house indicates that the thief is a male, a young man and a bold culprit. Mars aspected by Saturn, occupying Leo suggests that he will be dark in complexion.

The seventh Bhava is occupied by Moon and Ketu. Rahu and Ketu will give first, the result of the planets with which they are conjoined and then only the results of the lord of the sign. As Moon is feminine, Moon and Ketu indicate two ladies. Ketu which is to indicate the results of Jupiter who owns the second house to the seventh, has actually done his work. Because, the fact is that the two women were involved in disposing a portion of the property (second house is to make money; convert into cash etc.) Therefore, a young blackman and two other ladies should be the culprits.

To regain what one has lost is a fortune. Such fortunate results can be given only by the lord of the 11th house. The eleventh house is owned by Jupiter. So, he must gain strength so that the person can have his property. At the time of query, it was retrograde. So, he cannot have them, during the period of Jupiter's retrograde motion. Jupiter becomes stationary and takes direct motion on 10th January 1965. Therefore, one cannot have it before 10-1-’65, so, do not worry at all. Wait. After 10-1-’65, one must have it.

According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati Jupiter should transit in the star of the lord of the 12th house to the 7th, i.e. 6th house and the sub of the second or 11th house. Jupiter, after direct motion, can transit only in the star of Venus (lord of the 12th house to the seventh) and in the sub of Mercury in Bharani star. That is, according to Nirayana system Jupiter should transit between 24° and 25°31’ i.e. between 5th February 1965 and 19th February 1965. Actually, one has received them only then.

When can one commit theft successfully? The Conjoined period and Subperiod of the Significators of 2nd, 6th, and 11th and not connected with 5th, 8th, or 12th, show that one can gain by theft successfully.