## INTRODUCTION

The Importance of Astrology

The purpose of living is to discover the purpose of living. Our ancestors taught us that astrology was one of the keys to the solution of this enigma. The importance of astrology was well stressed by Vaidyanatha Dikshita when he said in his treatise ‘Jatakaparijata’ that there is nothing in the world like a horoscope to help a man in the acquisition of wealth, to save him like a boat in a sea of troubles and to serve him as a guide in his journey. The science of astrology was held in such esteem in ancient India as to be recognized as one of the Angas of the Veda, though the term ‘Jyothisha Sastra’ as it was then known included both astronomy and astrology. As Dr. Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote, “Astrology is astronomy brought to earth and applied to the affairs of men.” Of what use is astronomy to mankind unless it is interpreted in terms of our daily life and thought? Even well-known astronomical authorities have admitted that the manner in which the eastern nations had set forth to make elaborate and costly arrangements for continual observation of celestial phenomena was not intended to advance the cause of astronomy but to gain results of great astrological value. They built observatories in order that, in the long run, a trustworthy system of astrology could be deduced by them from the study of the motions of the heavenly bodies. In our own country, the subject was studied as part of the curriculum in the ‘guru kulas’ though in recent times its study has been neglected.

Time is of the essence in astrology as much as in any other aspect of life. Man cannot fulfil his obligations in society without devising ways of recording the flow of time correctly. Physicists are aware of the importance of time measurement to them. An agriculturist should know the correct time of sowing and harvesting. Religious festivals have to be observed in time. And so the need for correct astronomical ephemeris of panchangas is obvious.

A panchang or almanac is a book of information relating to the longitudes, etc. of the Sun, the Moon and the planets together with the related phenomena. It contains astronomical calculations and furnishes the thithis (the lunar day), vara (the week day), nakshatra (the position of the Moon in its orbit), yoga and karana. A panchang is to an astrologer as finance is to a businessman.

Almanacs in India: A Need for Uniformity

At present, a large number of almanacs appear in India every year from different parts of the country and in different languages. The makers of these panchangs follow the siddhanta that appeals to them, though Surya Siddhanta is the one widely followed. During the period from 400 AD to 1200 AD, known as the period of Siddhanta Jyothisha, as many as eighteen siddhantas were in application and these siddhantas persist in varying degrees in our panchangs even to this day. No wonder, therefore, these almanacs vary widely in the positions of the planets and the time when a thithi, naksbatrn, yoga and karana begins or ends. Even here, the time is stated in terms of ghatis and vighatis which were employed when watches and clocks were not available. Would it not be advisable now to change over to the time measurement in hours and minutes which is in universal use rather than confuse the reader by compelling him to find out the time of Suryodaya in the locality, convert the ghatis and vighatis into equivalent hours and minutes and then add it to the Suryodayakala to arrive at the moment of beginning or end, as the case may be, of a thithi or nakshatra? No two almanacs agree as to when the sun enters a particular rasi and when it leaves it and enters the next rasi or when the New Moon, Full Moon or Amavasya (Moon-Sun conjunction) occurs. While one panchang considers a certain time of a day beneficial for commencing a certain undertaking belonging to an auspicious yoga-according to it, the other panchangs differ. There is utter confusion in the panchangs in such fundamental matters like the beginning of the year, the solar months and days, the lunar month and thithis. 

There does not seem to be any uniformity among the panchang makers even in regard to the dates when the religious Festivals are to be celebrated. The seasons have lost their traditional association with the months and very frequently festivals as given in the panchangs fall in the wrong season. The consultant is naturally confused and is at a loss to know which panchang to follow. Can not all almanacs ensure uniformity and follow the lead given by the National Calendar and prepare their panchangs making use of the accurate data computed by the Nautical Almanac Unit of the Government of India in accordance with the most up-to-date astronomical formulae and arrive at the Nirayana positions of the planets by subtracting the Ayanamsa commonly in use? Such a step, I am sure, will go far in narrowing the wide gap now existing among the almanacs.

The Vakya System of Calculations
There exists a set of people who are blind to reason and still follow and advocate the vakya system of calculations. This system came into being when the calculations suggested by Aryabhata to conform to the changes that had crept in the planetary motions since the time of Surya Siddhanta were found to be lengthy. To avoid this, certain astronomers like Varahamihira invented the vakya method whereby readymade, calculated longitudes for small cycles and great cycles were worked out and it was claimed that with the help of vakyas the planetary positions including the Moon can be calculated with ease.

Can we imagine two sets of heavenly bodies, one answering to the followers of vakya calculations and the other to those who adopt the ‘Drik’ system? It appears impossible. It appears that the makers of vakya panchanga due to their ignorance or disinclination to learn the present methods of calculation are simply claiming superiority on antiquity and following.

We are all gifted with the faculty of reason and discrimination and, if as a result of that, we come to the conclusion that the ‘Drik’ method alone is correct, we should let our reason prevail to the exclusion of all other factors. A wise man is compared to the swan which knows how to separate milk combined with water. Our ancients did expect us to revise the calculation from time to time so that the results arrived at agree with scientific and ocular verification. According to them “Drik karanakya vibrenah, khetas sthoolahas karmanam arbab.” That is to say, the positions of the planets found out by using a calculation inconsistent with observational precision will only be approximate and rough and not fit for religious observances.

They have also advised us to observe religious functions at a time arrived at according to "Drik" calculation alone, "Mirtaham Samarikramya Chandalah Koti Janmasnv". He who misses the day of anniversary of departed soul is sure to be penalised by births a crore of times. That they do not want us to commit any error in this respect is thus amply clear. "Drik" means "to see". There is no such distinction in astronomical calculations as visible calculations like the eclipses and invisible calculations like the thithis for which inaccurate vakya-calculations could be followed as advocated by the followers of the Vakya system. Thithis are also visible as they are 12 degree distances between the Sun and the Moon and can be measured by astronomical instruments, and the same Sun and Moon which cause eclipses cause thithis also. The simplest method to verify the accuracy or otherwise of any system is to observe the moment when an eclipse occurs or the moment when it is "New Moon" or "Full Moon" and see whether it coincides with the moment arrived at according to that system. The Drik system passes the test, while the Vakya system utterly fails. If the time of eclipse according to the vakya calculation is wrong, on the same analogy the beginning and ending moments of the thithis calculated according to that system should also be wrong. Are we still right in observing anniversaries of departed souls and performing other religious functions according to the inaccurate vakya thithis?

There is a difference between the calculations, old and new: for, the elements of the planets and the data employed in the old methods have not been subjected to any change, while in the new method these have been rectified from time to time. While converting the mean position of the planet (madhya graha) to the true position (sputa graha), the old method employed only a small number of inequalities while the new system takes several inequalities into account. In respect of the Moon, the maximum difference between the Vakya and Drik systems may work out to 17 ghatikas of time (6 hours, 43 minutes) in thithi and nakshatras which are two important angas of the almanac. Sa also the position of Mars and Mercury give vast disparity in the new system from those obtained according to the old method.

The Hindus fix the dates of festivals, anniversaries, birthdays and other ceremonies only on an astronomical basis. They do not observe the rule "Thirty days have September, April, June and November". The birthdays or the anniversaries are celebrated not on fixed dates of fixed months, but based upon thithis and nakshatras. As already said before, no religious practices should be observed at wrong moments. Even for Astrology, the calculations must be accurate. In Uttara Kalamrita, Kalidasa makes it very clear in Sloka 4 of Kanda J that the exact positions of the planets are to be calculated according to the Drik method. Mantreswara echoes the same sentiment when he says in Phala Deepika "Ghathir Drik Thulyathvam Ganitha Karanaithi", that is the position of the planets coincident with observation should be used. We will do well to follow the Drik system for then we shall be wise, others otherwise.

When Westerners publish Ephemeris worked out by great astronomers of today who calculate correctly to land in moon at a specified point at the scheduled moment, I do not find why we should separately work and bring out almanacs to erect dozen horoscopes to the same person. Simply use that Ephemeris where daily position of planets is given; this book is a self-instructor. Let it serve all and let us see that one person has only one horoscope.