## ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Tyothir Pandit Hiralal Sharma, Hon'y. Director,
Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, Ballahgarh, Mandir P.O., Banjar, District Kulu (Himachal Pradesh).

When the author visited in May 1969,
We, the people of Himachal Pradesh, are lucky to have the Darshanam of our Hon'bls Guruji, Sothida Mannan, Jyothish Marthand Sri K.S. Krishnamurtiji during his visit to our Banjar valley in connection with the “take-over” ceremony of our Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, Ballahgarh-Mandir, Banjar as the branch of Stellar Astrological Research Institute, Madras-15, of which our Guruji is the Founder and President. Indeed, we are fortunate, as Sri Krishnamurtiji responded promptly to the request made by the members of our Institute and other well-wishers in Himachal Pradesh to visit Banjar during ‘Banjar Fair’ whereby a large number of people would enjoy the benefit of his visit.

As per the scheduled programme, our Guruji reached Banjar on 4-5-69 at 10-45 A.M.I.S.T. He was profusely garlanded by the members of the Institute at the entrance of our sub-office. We had a brief halt in our sub-office and during the jolly chat over the cup, Guruji lucidly explained as to how we were destined to have the Darshan of Lord Uchchista Mahaganapathy whom he brought with him and the Darshan of Guruji, only at this moment, telling the importance of the ruling planets at the moment. We all were wonderstruck for the analytical brain our Guruji displayed. We consider him as the learned son of Goddess Saraswati—no doubt at all. In the meantime, many went up the hill to the maidan in front of the holy temple of God Markandayaji.

Then, we took Guruji to temple at Ballahgarh where all the members of our Institute were eagerly awaiting Guruji’s arrival. Guruji, by his speedy steps, not minding the points he had to encounter while following the zig-zag rocky tract, steep up the hill, arrived at the destination within 30 minutes. Seniormost members of the Institute presented bouquets to welcome Guruji and then Guruji had the Darshan of God Sri Markandayaji and he offered prayers.

Then he was taken by the President of our Institute to the stage, specially erected. Immediately after the chair was occupied by our Hon'ble Guest, President of our Institute made the welcome speech, the extract of which I give here-under:

Welcome Speech made by Shri Jagat Ram Sharma, 
President, Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute.

“I personally and on behalf of all the members of Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, Ballahgarh, Mandir, welcome the scholar of our Mother India, our respected Guruji, Jyothish Marthand Sri K.S. Krishnamurtiji. He has grasped all the fadiaa and Western Systems of Astro-Science, finding numerous flaws in these traditional ones, he devoted many years in research work and finally has succeeded in discovering a unique formula of his own to predict miraculously. His discovery goes under the title “Krishnamurti Padhdhati”—a monumental work—appears to be humanly impossible. We call him the Varahmihirachary2 of our age. We pray that Lord Uchchista Mahaganepathy may bestow upon him a long span of life thereby enabling him to further the cause of Astrology, which is the only science that can predict the future of mankind.”

Introductory Speech Made by Jyothi Pandit Hira Lal Sharma, Hon'ble, Director of the Institute
“Respected Guruji”, President of the Institute, and Gentlemen,
It is our pleasant privilege to welcome Jyothish Marihand Sri K.S. Krishnamurti, Founder and President of Stellar Astrological Research Institute, Madras-15, and the visiting Professor of Astrology appointed by the Kulapatiji K.M. Munshi, Chancellor, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay. Sri Krishnamurtiji is the greatest scholar in the science of stars today. He is the master brain to discover Krishnamurti Padhdhati. He is our Revered Guruji and we all bow before him.
The science of stars is as old as the earth itself. It is divided into two branches: (i) Astronomy dealing with heavenly bodies and (ii) Astrology recognizing their effects upon terrestrial affairs and is by far the most difficult and much-less understood one. 
Every individual wishes to tear the veil of so-called unknown future and to see what destiny has got in store for him. This is rendered possible for him by Astrology, its edifice being based upon the Law of Karmas. Ancient savants of India and of Western world had written huge volumes upon the subject. Thousands of books have been handed down to us. But since then, much water has flowed down the Thames.
We are now living in the scientific age. We are travelling in spaceships and not in age-old bull-carts. These traditional textbooks are found to be not useful for 20th century standard of human race. These books are just glow-worms glowing at a moment and extinguishing at another, not steering the course for a man in darkness; all these being only for charm and admiration.

Now the Aquarian Age is Fast Approaching
But an Aquarian Star Has Risen in the Indian Soil. He is Our Revered Guruji Jyothish Marthand Sri K. S. Krishnamurti, Who Has Digested Hindu and Western Literature on His Subject Thoroughly. Through His Vast Experience, Extending to Forty Years, He Found That the Predictive Principles Commemorated in These Books Are General and They Miserably Failed. So Most of the Traditional Astrologers Have Contributed Sufficiently to Ridicule the Fair Name of Astrology - the Science of Sciences. But Guruji Has Laboured Much to Make Astrology as Perfect a Science as Astronomy Itself. By God's Grace, His Ten Years of Deep Research Bore Fruit and He Had Devised an Infallible Formula to Give One Hundred Percent Accurate Predictions Universally Applicable to Any Type of Horoscope - Natal, Annual, or Horary. This Formula is Popularly Known as Krishnamurti Padhdha - a Real Gemstone Among Stones.

Eminent Personages of Our Astro-Department with More Than 25 Years of Experience to Their Credit in Practically Handling Horoscopes have been wise enough to discard traditional systems of horoscopic delineations and have now switched to Krishnamurti Padhdhati. They have found that the principles enunciated by Indian and Western scholars are full of alternatives and ambiguities and, even if properly applied, never pinpoint the nature and time of transpiration of any event in question. They agree with Guruji that, if K.P. is followed strictly, predictions are 100% accurate, clients are convinced, and the astrologer is satisfied with the service he has done. K.P. has restored the fair name of this celestial science and has put it on a firm footing. Defectors such as "likely," "probably," etc. bringing discredit to the science have now mostly disappeared from the scene with the appearance of K.P. K.P. means "past is past and future is made known." We correctly declare K.P. as an encyclopaedia of astro-science. So, we advise, "Learn K.P. You can win the world."

Krishnamurti Padhdhati Advises Following Raphael's Ephemeris
Krishnamurti Ayanamsa or Krishnamurti Ephemeris (now published) should be followed when erecting an exact horoscope. The lords of constellations, i.e. Nakshatram, should be noted down as per Vim-Dasa Lordships (only Dasa in Kaliyuga should be followed to find the time of events). Shri K.S.K. has divided for the first time in the history of Astrology a constellation span of 13 degrees 20 minutes into further 9 sub-divisions. The spans of these sub-divisions are in proportions to Dasa years allotted to 9 planets as per Vim-Dasa. The planet to which a particular sub-division is allotted within the 13°20' span of a constellation is called the sub-lord of the sub-division.

Predictive principles are exhaustively explained in K.P. Vols. I and II, and then one can correctly predict. As per K.P., it is so simple to cast the chart; it is so easy to read; it is so accurate a prediction. There is no magic; no yakshoi; no devil; but a product of super human intelligence of our Guraji, Shri Krishnamurtiji.

We are very happy that Shri Krishnamurtiji has recognized Shri Markandaya Astro Cultural Institute as his branch in Himachal Pradesh and we are extremely thankful to him for having taken so much pains in coming to Banjar from Madras. May Lord Uchehsta Mahaganapathi bless him with a long span of life.

We thank you all for your co-operation in making the function a grand success. and there he established his Ashram.

On the Following Day, Guruji Had Dharshan of God Sringa Rishiji Maharaj
On the following day, Guruji had the dharshan of God Sringa Rishiji Maharaj. Thakur Lai Singhiji Decpak, B.A., B.Ed., a senior member of the staff of the Government Model Higher Secondary School in Banjar, gave an introduction about Sringa Rishiji. He had lived with his father, Bhabhandak Rishi, in the thick forests of Central India until he was young. Bhabhandak Rishi advised his son to go to the Himalayas to an unfrequented place for deep meditation, away from disturbances, so that he could acquire spiritual uplift. God Sringa Rishi obeyed his father and selected a very beautiful, calm, peaceful, and pleasant place near Banjar, only a mile away, at about 11,000 feet height. This place, known as Skiran, was noted for its agreeable atmosphere and majestic natural scenery, and it was here that he established his Ashram.

Dasaratha, the King of Ayodhya, was worried. He was anxious to have children, considering his advanced age. He had lost all hope of having any issue. His counselors, headed by Swami Vishwamitra, advised him to perform a great yagna under the personal direction of Lord Sringa Rishiji. Dasaratha agreed to this proposal and Lord Sringa Rishiji was brought to Ayodhya by magical tactics. A great yagna was performed and Lord Rama and his brothers were born. Then he returned to his place, Skiran, and was again absorbed in deep penance. Guruji, it is that Lord Sringaji Maharaj whose darshanam we are having today. Indeed, we are fortunate today to have the blessings from two Maharishis—Lord Sringaji Maharaj and Rev. Krishnamurtiji, who wrote K.P.—a great Granthraj. May God give him success after success.

Another meeting was held on 16-5-69 in the school campus of the Government Model Higher Secondary School, Banzar, District Kulu. Distinguished persons of the valleys and about 600 students of the school attended the meeting. Pandit Puran Chandji, Radio Singer and S.E. P.O. Department of Community Development, gave the melodious musical recitation as Mangalacharana. Then the welcome speech was read by the Principal of the School. Extract is as follows:

Shri O.P. Sud, M.A., B.T.: Respected Guruji, Gentlemen, and Dear Students, I am extremely happy today to welcome Shri K.S. Krishnamurtiji, the visiting professor of Astrology in India, on his visit to Banjar to inaugurate the affiliation of Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute to Stellar Astrological Research Institute, Madras+15. He has pioneered the Stellar-Science and is the discoverer of Krishnamurti Padhdhati—a hallmark in the predictive part of Astronomy to give accurate predictions, which are now being proved 100% correct. He has kindly agreed to deliver his valuable lectures to a large gathering assembled here. His lectures will surely evoke the students to learn Astrology during their school and college career. He has proved beyond doubt that Astrology is an exact science and a useful one for Hindus to be included in the school curriculum. The science has been held in high esteem through the ages. I take this opportunity to request him to publish a series of graded books, suitable for the students of various categories in easily understandable language, especially in Hindi, which is spoken in Himachal Pradesh and the majority of states of India.

In the end, I again thank Guruji very much for the trouble he has so kindly taken to come to Banjar from Madras in South India.

WHAT SHRI M. KITTUR SAYS! THE NEW LIGHT OF JYOTISHYA:
Shri Kittur explains the system and the significance of Shri K.S. Krishnamurti in the highest of the technicalities of the new science. He spreads his canvas wide and narrates the developments from the past to the present.

In an Age of Exploration
All realms of science are being explored; space has been conquered, nuclear energy has been mastered, and the divine stellar region has also been explored. The credit of the stellar conquest goes to K.S. Krishnamurti. Prior to the research of Krishnamurti, this divine subject of astrology was based on shaky foundations and had lost its divine grace, importance, and utility to mankind. It was because of this science being handicapped by quacks to earn their living that it lost all its divine grandeur. Under such circumstances, this ‘Jyotishya Shastra’ lost its ‘Light’ (jyots) and became the object of ridicule and despise. Sri Krishnamurti, however, restored the lost light to this science and made it perfect again. The science which only had the privilege of “Pancha Bhiuvati paocha oa Bhavati” is now on a strong foundation known as “Krishnamurti Padhdhati.” Sri Krishnamurti, after continuous research over a period of three decades, has evolved his own system, which enables an astrologer to give meticulously correct predictions. Sri Krishnamurti says that those who call astrology a science of tendencies and probabilities are not astrologers at all. There is no place for uncertainties in Krishnamurti Padhdhati.

This Research Has Not Been an Easy Task for Sri Krishnamurti
In the beginning, his predictions too failed. Being bestowed with an inquisitive mind, he carried on his research, unmindful of the difficulties that came in his way. His convulsive efforts bore him fruit when he discovered that the deciding factor ‘SUB’ gives a definite clue and surprisingly accurate prediction.
One may ask what is the ‘SUB’ which plays such a pre-dominant role in this system? The ‘SUB’ is one of the nine divisions of a constellation, divided in the order and the proportion of Vimshottari dasa system. Traditional astrologers make use of constellations only in fixing the balance of Dasa at the time of birth whereas Sri Krishnamurti uses the constellations and the ‘SUB’ to offer predictions of twins which are born with a difference of few minutes. In cases where the planetary positions remain the same, traditional astrologers should predict alike in both cases. But actually, both persons lead altogether different lives. It is Krishnamurti’s ‘SUB’ that would decide even the minute difference and helps in giving correct predictions for both the twins.
Many traditional astrologers, after being convinced about the truth and utility of his system, switched on to his method, casting away the traditional method which has no definite principles. Krishnamurti’s system has definite principles which are universally applicable.
People within and outside India are very much eager to have darshana of this scholar. We, the citizens of Hubli-Dharwar, are very much fortunate to have this master-minded genius amidst us and to listen to his scholastic lectures on his discoveries and techniques. It would not be an exaggeration if Sri Krishnamurti is called ‘Adhunk Varahamuhir’. May Lord Maha Ganapati bless Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti with a long life and opportunity to spread his knowledge.

What Shri V.K. Srinivasan, Ja Secretary, S.A.RTL Mandandawela, Matale, Ceylon Says
Astrology is a very ancient science, preached and practised by our saints, sages, and nobles, and was a divine gift to us. However, in course of time, when it had fallen into the hands of the unworthy and incompetent, it lost its glory and truths were eclipsed, and clouds of doubts spread in the wilderness. 
In 1961, certain traditional astrologers threatened that there would be “destruction of the world” at large. This false propaganda increased the density of clouds of doubts and fear among the masses. At that time, a silent and salient scholar, born on 3-11-1908 at Tanjore, was compelled to come to the limelight to expose the real truths of this noble science. His vast experiences and fruitful researches of three decades made him undertake long journeys to all parts of India, to alleviate the minds of fear and the ignorant, and rid them of any misconception due to the configuration of the eight planets in Makara, and ensure peace of mind to billions in and out of India. His action thunderstruck several traditionals who thrived on falsehood and ignorance of others. 
Attacks and criticisms grew, but days, months, and years passed away; planets too moved away from the sign of configuration, but nothing happened to the world at large. The masses understood the false propaganda and the texts of the traditionals, not as a question of need, but as a question of greed.
Shri Krishnamurti’s preachings and practices were enhanced with more vigour on receipt of Uchista Maha Ganapathy from Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Kamakoti in 1951. From this time, he started the transmission of the fruits of his research and knowledge to the students of astrology who met him daily in the evenings. His services were admired by the learned, who encouraged him to extend the benefits of his researches to all, through “Astrology & Athrishta”.
This Man is No God, Not Even Brahma, But an Ordinary Mortal. Nor was he a Saint or Sage. This Mortal with Young Spirit researched and released his Immortal Astrological Treatises through his Grand Work, Krishnamurti Padhdhati. There are several hundreds of texts in the market; interpretations of same slokas, yogas and combinations by different authors; but his few books have outweighed all others. Definitely, his ability cannot be judged by any mortal, merely by counting the number of texts he released, as you cannot judge fishes as more precious than diamonds merely because they are plenty in the market.
This Gold Medalist and holder of the title Jyotish Marthand, conferred by the then Governor of Bombay, His Excellency Shri Cherian, is simple in thought and living. His power to transform the starters into stars confirms the perfection of his preaching in K.P. besides his ability. Perhaps the greatest quality of this Jyotish Marthand K.S. Krishnamurti, perhaps his most noteworthy virtue, is that he does not himself belong to that class of astrologers of “ifs and buts”, “probables and possibilities” and “chances and tendencies”.
Correspondences reveal certain collaborations of the traditional astrologers. They, who failed miserably in their system, took shelter under K.P.; praised at the beginning and provoked at last. The pangs of jealousy, envy and anger, which gnawed at their heart, did not allow them to study the truths properly and master K.P. Their failures became the failures of Science and thereby they failed to see the light of truth. As long as your heart is impure, you cannot see the light of truth. When the Sun is exactly over your head, there will be no shadow. Similarly, when faith in K.P. is steady in heart, it should not cast any shadow of doubts in its principles and predictions. Hence, dive deeply into this sea and discover the might of the Creator. There is no use in dipping near the shore and swearing that the sea is shallow and has no pearls. Dive deep; you will secure your desire. It is certain.
Krishnamurti Padhdhati symbolises perfection of predictions and realisations. It throws more light on the truth of planets, correct interpretation of houses and correct casting of horoscopes. Casting of horoscopes with the help of ruling planets is a novelty, practised by him and his followers. Application of correct ayanamsa and ruling planets to pinpoint events to the exact hour, minute and second are additional distinctions to his researches and ability.
Being in Government Service, he had the opportunity to collect many hundreds of horoscopes of twins for researches, which resulted in the discovery of SUB THEORY which was not dawned to any one; not even to the saints and sages. His interpretation of Nodes is the offering of his practical experiences.
As innovator of the Horary System, his analysis, judgements and conclusion are methodical, meticulous and marvellous. On being given a number below 249, his ability to form a map of heaven mentally, analyse the planetary positions and strength, select the significators, eliminate the redundants, check up with the ruling planets, coming to candid judgement, proving with divine guidance and offering the final results within three minutes after giving prayers to Uchchista Maha Ganapatry are thrilling memorable actions of this intellect.
When others struggle to rectify the birth time, he with great ease finds the correct birth time up to the exact seconds with the guidance of ruling planets. Recently, his services were duly recognised in Malaysia, by conferring the title SOTHIDA MANNAN and presentation of a GOLD MEDAL. His prediction extended well in advance, during his visit in Malaysia, about the defeat of the so called ‘lion’ of Vaddukoddai seat by a newly entered ‘cat’ in the recent election held on 27th March 1970, proved to be the prediction of perfection, accuracy and realisation.

Giving meticulous and candid predictions is the crowning point in Krishnamurti Padhdhati. What is the use of astrology if correct predictions cannot be given after such laborious studies and researches? This is the main reason why astrology is ridiculed and condemned by a few due to the poor judgements and predictions given by the so called professors and doctors of this Science. At the same time, this few should understand that Science never fails but Scientists. Blame those Scientists whether doctors or astrologers for their misadventures and not Medicine or Astrology. Shri Krishnamurti is neither a self styled professor nor a doctor as he was a Sanitary Inspector in Government Service and is a visiting Professor of Astrology at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan.

It is not the question of titles and savings but that of the true and sincere service to mankind. Basic fundamentals are same whether it is traditional or not, as the structures of all human bodies are same but not their deeds. Flour and sugar - the basic requirements of all sweets are same, but flour and sugar separately will not form a sweet. Fundamentals from the saints and sages with the fruitful researches of Shri Krishnamurti had resulted in the production of KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI.

Today - Thursday is common to all, but it depends on how we make the best use of it. Allocation of 6 years and 10 years to Sun and Moon respectively in Vimshodhari dasa system is a fundamental dasa given to us by our ancients and it is ridiculous to analyse as to why it was done so. Other than correctly applying the same for future predictions; as two and two when added together give four, whether it is Eastern or Western and there is no dispute about it. Certain fundamentals like dasa bukthi, anthra, rasi, ownership, planets, days, months, etc, are common to all and none can claim them as their own.

Krishnamurti system is based on rational foundations and when tested brings more tribute to the Creator. Practical applications of this system in daily life bring more confidence on the creator and do not give rise to any contention that planets do not compel but impel. Faith on Creator will bring belief in Destiny and what is to happen without fail according to the Destiny or Past Karma. Hence do not vacillate at it, it will only fritter away your time, energy and efforts when in pitch darkness, everything appears level but day reveals the heights and hollows. It is only ignorance speaks equality of things to this KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI.

How do you know that today is 19th Nov. 1970? Some person of authority whom you trust or respect or inclined to follow, said that today is 19th November 1970; that is all. This paper is white. “Why and How” could not be answered by any. Since one fails, it does not mean non-existence. Agreement and faith will help you to achieve your desire in this field through KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI.
GOOD LUCK