## Sub useful for detailed reading

(a) What each constellation signifies and (b) to each rasi born which constellation are beneficial and which are disadvantageous are to be understood first.

1. A planet offers the results indicated by the lord of the constellation more predominantly than what it denotes by its occupation, ownership and nature. It is true that the expectations according to the occupation and ownership of a planet fail in many cases whereas certain events not indicated as above, happen which in full, agree with those foreshadowed by the lord of the constellation. Whenever there are planets in the constellation of the occupant or the owner, such planets deposited in the constellation offers the result. Occupants or owners do not offer the results of the houses but they offer the results of the lord of the Constellation in which they are deposited.

2. When one carries on research, one comes to know that the constellation needs further subdivision. Such a subdivision is called “Sub”. If the constellation is compared to the bed of the river then the ups and downs in the bed of the river is similar to the sub. The Thirupaur Kadal, i.e. the milky ocean was not genuine and unadulterated. It contained both the Nectar and the deadly poison. Similarly there are some portions (sub) in a constellation which are most beneficial to a person and certain areas in the same constellation which are disadvantageous to the same individual.

This can be explained by taking an example. Suppose in one’s horoscope Mars and Venus are the two significators for one’s marriage. Mars governs the stars Mrigasira, Chithrai and Dhanishta; Venus rules the constellations Bharani, Poorvaphalguni and Poorvashada. Marriage proposal, negotiation, arrangement settlement, celebration, etc., can happen only when the significators transit in these constellations. But the sub in these stars show precisely which will be done during the period when the significator transits in a sub.

Mars transits in Poorvaphalguni, Poorvaphalguni extends between 13°20' and 26°-40' in Leo. The first sub of 2°-13'-20" is allotted to Venus, Negotiation stars: Elders discuss, when mars passes on to the next sub, governed by the life giving Sun’s sub, they decide to proceed and fix up the marriage. When the significator moves to the next sub, allotted to Moon, the terms are further finalised. During the occasion when it passes in Mars sub, the marriage Pandal is erected; goldsmith is asked to prepare Thirumangalyam; silver and eversilver vessels are purchased; music is arranged. When Mars is in Rahu’s sub, invitation is posted. A few close relatives arrive. When it passes on in Jupiter's sub, Marriage is celebrated. Mars, during its stay in Saturn sub shows separation from close relatives, departure of guests, etc., The couple is left alone without interference or disturbance. Mars passes on the Mercury sub and the couple go on short journeys. It may be said as ‘Honey Moon’. Then followed the days when Mars in Venus star Kethu sub and they visit Vallabha Ganapathi’s temple. Thus, one of the significators transiting in the constellation of another significator indicates one particular affair. The sub in that constellation shows how the above matter takes shape, its progress, etc., and how it materialises.

Suppose a person has litigation in the court of law. Litigation will be indicated by a few plants in his horoscope. When a planet transits in a constellation ruled by the significator, it shows the various stages as it passes sub after sub. Let Mercury be a significator denoting dispute. When a planet, say the other significator Saturn, transits in Mercury sub, the person gives lawyer notice. When Saturn transits in Kethu’s sub the person receives a rejoinder. When it passes in Venus sub, he tries for compromise. When it further proceeds and is in Sun’s sub, he files the suit. During the time when it is in Moon’s sub, summons are served. During the period when it passes in Mars sub, the judge takes up the case; both sides go on arguing till Rahu sub is over. When it moves in Jupiter’s sub the parties enter to a compromise. Thus, it will be seen that Mercury which indicates litigation, shows that when a planet transits in its constellation, it refers all about the litigation. But the sub mentions specifically and precisely the minute details of the matter and gives useful and correct picture.

Suppose in the natal chart, there are two planets in one constellation, but one is in the sub of a beneficial planet and the other planet, is in the sub of an evil one. Then during the period of the planet, in the sub of a benefic, it gives success, whereas during the period of the planet in the sub of a malefic, it does harm in the same affair. If the lord of the constellation indicates married life, when a planet transits in favourable sub, one enjoys pleasure; if the same planet or any other planet transits in unfavourable sub, results in displeasure though constellation remains the same.

Suppose one is born in Pisces with Rahu and Jupiter in the constellation Hastham ruled by lord of 5, Moon. Suppose, Rahu is in the sub of Moon itself and Jupiter is in the sub of Saturn in Hastham star. Then the lady will have a child born during Rahu Bhukthi and none in Jupiter’s sub period. Generally one will expect abortion during Rahu’s period and birth of child in Jupiter’s period, as Jupiter is the chief governor for children.

Let one be born in Virgo with Jupiter in Poorvaphalguni star ruled by lord of 2 and 9, Venus; the sub, is that of Sun who owns the 12th house and Saturn is in the same star Poorvaphalguni but in the sub of Moon. Then during Jupiter’s sub period, the native goes on a long journey as sub of sun shows separation and life in a foreign place. That which is in the sub of Moon, lord of 11, promises reunion. Hence during Saturn’s sub period he returns home. Both the planets are in 12. Both are in the same constellation. Because the sub is different, the result is different.

A person born in Aquarius purchases a car during the period of the planet occupying the constellation belonging to the lord of i.e. 4, Venus (Poorvaphalguni) and the sub of Jupiter ruling 11th house, But, he disposes the same car when he runs the period of a planet in the same star but the sub of Mars which owns the 3rd house. The constellation lord refers to an object. Acquiring it or disposing it depends on the sub.

Thus, if one verifies, one can understand that the lord of the star shows a particular matter and the sub indicates the details about the same i.e. the success or failure; progress or not; whether one’s application is shelved or whether it is moving; that too favourably or unfavourably. This method of prediction is indeed, a discovery.

This alone comes correct. Tradition is no good: never useful; nor scientific. So tradition cannot be applied universally.