## Shanti to ward off evil
Therefore, people may be classified into four groups. One group will be those who do Shanti and enjoy the results desired by them, and may attribute the benefit to the Shanti; the other group will do Shanti, yet suffer, without any appreciable redemption, and say that however much they offered Shanti, it did no good. The third group will neither do Shanti nor believe in it, though they live happily, roll in wealth, have success after success, and enjoy enviable results. The fourth group never does Shanti, but ever suffers.

The circumstances under which one is placed, one's natural expectations and normal anticipation, one's performing Shanti either out of fear or for favor, and the ultimate results are all due to one's previous karma. All these can be read from one horoscope and it is possible for the astrologer to estimate the seriousness of the karma. Have we not seen in "Nadis" written by the sages that advice is offered to do various Shanties depending on one's past action?

Karma can be divided broadly into three kinds: Dhruda Karma, Dhruda Adhruda Karma, and Adhruda Karma. By Dhruda Karma, it is meant that one has committed an inexcusable mistake or crime in the previous birth, such as murder, denying food and shelter to the invalid old parents, cheating the minor brothers during partition, denying the wages to the poor class of helpless servants, cheating, and ingratitude. Such malefactors, ungrateful children, dishonest brothers, mighty masters, and cheats may do any amount of Shanti, but they cannot ward off the malefic results to the desired extent, as the crime is serious and unpardonned. Though to a negligible extent, it will be reduced, as no action will go to waste and every action has its own result. But the same Shanti, done by people who have committed pardonable mistakes, mitigates the affliction in full and leaves them unscathed. For example, if "A" has borrowed Rs. 56,000 and "B" has taken only Rupees one hundred as loan, and "A" repays rupees one hundred, while "B" also repays one hundred, "A" has yet to suffer as the loan cleared is negligible and the burden is yet more or less the same. But "B" is carefree and regains peace of mind. Therefore, such Dhruda Karma people have to accept the punishment, undergo the trial, and patiently endure the penalty. In such cases, "Avasyam Anubokthavyam Krishna Karma Subhasubham" will apply. Whether they pray to God or they perform any Shanti, they should reap the consequences of the previous Karma with practically no appreciable modification because of the Shanti done.
God is all merciful; yet He is all attentive to His Duty in administering justice. He is fully aware of the Karma which one has done in the previous birth, the Shanti or virtuous deed one will do in this birth, and His impartial judgement is the result which one will enjoy. God knows what Shanti one will do, how far it would mitigate, and what the result would be.
In the horoscopes of those who have done Dhruda Karma, the Dasanatha, the Bhukthinatha, Lagna, and Moon will be devoid of the beneficial aspect from Jupiter and from the lord of the 9th house, who indicates the virtuous deed done in the previous birth.
Dhruda Adhruda Karma means that one would have committed an excusable mistake in the previous birth. It is just like an ignorant person having purchased a ticket to Bombay getting into Calcutta Mail. The Inspector finds out the mistake and points it to him. The passenger pleads ignorance and prays for excuse. The examiner leaves him without any punishment. In such persons' horoscopes, either the Lagna or Moon or Dasanatha or Bhukthinatha will receive favourable aspects from either Jupiter or Lord of 9 or both. Here the crime committed is so simple that he can be excused on his humble application.
A constable can excuse a driver for having driven a car on the wrong side if he gives a satisfactory explanation, such as skidding or puncture, etc., especially when there is neither traffic nor accident. But the same constable cannot excuse the driver if the car runs over a boy. Hence, excuse or no excuse depends on the seriousness of the crime.
The third one is Adhruda Karma. The crime committed may be negligible. It might have ended only in an evil thought. Suppose a young boy finds a fruit-bearing tree in a house overhanging on the road side and goes near it and, like a vulture, is moving there alone with a desire to have the fruit. The owner notes the boy and whistles. The boy understands that the owner is watching him and so he retraces his steps honourably. He does not remove the fruit. The boy had only the evil thought but he did not commit theft. Such ones may be classified as Adhruda Karma. In such persons' horoscope, Guru or Lord of 9 will be in the Lagna or conjoined with Moon or Dasanatha or Bhukthinatha. Such people will enjoy life though they do not perform any Shanti, nor pray nor donate for a good cause in this birth. One should not forget that Karma of the previous birth and Shanti or no Shanti in this birth result in the final destiny, which is the impartial judgement of God, which was already, once for all, decided at the time of birth. This is called "that which is written on the head" (Thalai Ezhuththu). This can be read from the horoscope. God writes on the head only once. He does not alter now and then as and when the Shanti is done. Nor can the birth time be changed. The horoscope will ever remain the same. Hence, the results indicated must come to pass. We know that doing or not doing Shanti is also indicated in the horoscope. The variety of Shanti which one may be advised to do depends upon the planets which rule his time and also the nature of the results which the native desires to have.
In a lady's chart, Rahu and Saturn are in the fifth house and both are in the constellation of the lord of the sixth house. The native was married in Mercury (Budha Dasa), Jupiter Bhukti (Guru sub-period). Saturn Bhukthi followed. Years passed, but it did not give her the pleasure of having a child. Kethu Dasa followed. Every fourth week disappointed her and her husband, so the couple became anxious. They approached an astrologer who said that, in her chart, Jupiter was conjoined with Kethu in the eleventh house while Sani and Rahu were in the fifth. So he advised that, if they did Santhi, they would surely have a child during Kethu Dasa, Guru Bhukti in Moolam Star. As per his advice, they visited Benares, then Rameswaram, and finally Guruvayur Krishna, at the time when Guru Bhukti just started. They also did some charity. They had a child born before her Kethu Dasa Guru Bhukti ended. (Here the chart denotes the lord of Lagna is Jupiter who is conjoined with Dasanatha Kethu. That she will take the advice and do shanthi is clearly shown. Guru in the eleventh house promises progeny. So she had a child during Guru's period. The child was born in Moolam Star which is governed by Kethu, in Jupiter's sign Sagittarius).
It may be asked, if she had not gone to these holy places, could she have had the child. The astrologer will say that she would have a child whether she worked off the evil by such pilgrimage or not and also that she would visit, to wipe off the malefic effects and receive the blessing of God in the shape of a boy whether the astrologer advised it or not. Both are her fate.
It is my finding that the sub and constellation in which the moon will be transiting at the time of the birth of the child will be governed by the Dasanatha and Bhuktinatha or the lords of the constellation in which they were found in the parent's charts.
Two friends, A and B, requested an astrologer to suggest a remedy, as they were suffering from eye trouble. The astrologer found that in A's birth chart, the evil period was coming to an end, whereas in B's chart, the future was becoming worse. He suggested to them that "Surya Namaskaram" would be effective. He also added that A would have the benefit, whereas B could not expect any improvement. Both decided to do Shanthi. A found all favourable conditions for him to do it satisfactorily and enjoyed beneficial results. B had many obstacles and impediments even to perform "Suryanamaskaram", but with all that, he managed to do the Shanthi. Unfortunately, he had no improvement.
Thus, it can be shown that it is possible for an astrologer to say whether one can have the chance to do offerings to God and whether one will have the advantage of such an action or not, by reading the horoscopes and ascertaining what variety of Karma they ought to have done in the previous birth and also the seriousness of the Karma.
Shanthi is of two kinds: Thrishta Shanthi and Athrishta Shanti. By Thrishta Santhi is meant that one knows what Shanthi they should do and that they are aware of the results of such a remedial measure. If one suffers from a headache and takes Aspro, Saridon, Anacin, or Codopyrin, they know that these are specifics for headache and they get relief. A few, even after taking the specific, may continue to suffer, which is also their fate. Here, the native is aware of their taking the medicine and also its curing effect. This is Thrishta Shanthi.
Athrishta means that which one can't see with naked eyes and non-astrological eyes. Athrishta Shanthi brings results without the knowledge of the person. Nor can the person judge the nature of favourable result they may enjoy and also whether Athrishta Shanthi includes homa, prayers, pilgrimage, construction of hospitals, maternity homes, schools, choultries, feeding the poor, donating blood, or fasting on Somavaram days, but the nature of the beneficial result which they may enjoy is not known. That is why it is called Athrishta.
Thus, it will be seen that astrology can show what Karma one should have done in the previous birth, whether one will do Shanthi or not in this life, and the ultimate results one is to enjoy. It is also known that every action will have its reaction, i.e. good actions yield desirable results, whereas bad actions bring evil to the native.
As doing Shanthi is always considered to be a virtue and therefore it has necessarily to bring favourable results to the doer, it is advisable that one either prays to God or does Homa or contributes for a good cause.
The number of people who commit inexcusable crimes like murder amounting to Dhruda Karma will be very few. The number of people who do not commit any crime at all but occasionally think of evil, known as Adhruda Karma, will be still fewer. Both form a very small minority. But the majority of people commit excusable mistakes called Dhruda Adhruda Karma. 
Therefore, Shanthi will be done by them with or without their knowledge and they will not ultimately suffer. 
As a layman may not know which variety of Karma they could have done in the previous birth, they will assume that they are one among many and that the performance of Shanthi will give them solace and peace of mind and ward off suspense, which is highly painful. They can entertain hopes and it gives mental solace.
Shanthi may be compared to taking a prophylactic vaccine against cholera, typhoid, or having revaccination against smallpox. Such a preventive measure gives confidence and immunity. One can visit the infected areas with courage and mix with such patients, though it may not guarantee that all those who had taken preventive measures will never suffer. Even if one contracts the disease, the attack will be very mild.
If one does not perform Shanthi or any virtuous deed, they can't be confident about their happiness in the future. There will be the doubt whether it will be peaceful or miserable. A few may live happily, but many will suffer from untold miseries.
One attends to minor repairs to their car before starting out and arrives with confidence. Two other people drive without testing it. One car returns safely and the other car breaks down. Is it not advisable to have the car examined by an expert, have the minor repairs attended to, and then alone drive? Just as the repairs can give confidence to the driver about the peaceful nature of the journey, even so the performance of Shanthi will be hopeful to relieve one from worries and give mental strength during the period of suspense.
Astrology indicates who will do Shanthi and attribute the reduction of the evil result to Shanthi alone. The person may be ignorant of the fact that their fate was that they should do Shanthi and they unnecessarily expected a more serious trouble, whereas only a mild one was their fate.
Astrology advises all to be good, to do Shanthi in any form and enjoy life with absolute peace of mind.