## WHO CAN LEARN ASTROLOGY

Often people approach me and express their difficulties with the art of astrological predictions. One of them said, "Sir, there was always an ardent desire in me to learn astrology. When I had the opportunity to study the science regularly, I earnestly worked night and day and tried to understand the principles. When I felt that I would be able to read the horoscopes, my friends gave me some charts and asked me to offer my findings. Various ideas flashed in my mind, but I found contradictory indications confusing and depressing me. Finally, I made a sincere attempt to predict, but I did not have much to say and only mentioned a few words. On finding that the querist was not satisfied and continued to stay expecting me to predict something more, I looked at him and he also looked at me with pity. Anyhow, I again tried to predict something more, but I was going on repeating what I had already said; such an embarrassing situation discouraged me further. My friends also dissuaded me with a sarcastic smile. So, I got vexed and gave it up dejected. 

A few years passed and again there was the urge to learn astrology scientifically instead of committing to memory the rules and reproducing them like a parrot. Even then while studying, I came across certain portions which appeared to be just contrary to what is mentioned by another author. I did not find any improvement; confusion continued and I was actually perplexed. I thought that probably the science is a difficult, complicated and intricate one. Fortunately, I understand that you are bringing out a magazine rendering it simple, clear and convincing, which is the opinion of the readers.

Can you kindly tell me, Sir, whether I shall learn astrology and master it, so that I can be useful to others by offering predictions?"

Astrology is no doubt mysterious and abstruse. It deals with the relation of the Planets in the Heavens and the occurrences on the Earth.

The Students of Astrology
The students of astrology must acquire sufficient knowledge in astronomy and be proficient in elementary mathematics. They must be careful to avoid any mistakes in their calculations. They should be capable of preparing horoscopes accurately using the correct Ephemeris (Raphael's) or by using Drik almanacs alone. For Ayanamsa, they will find the information published in this book to be useful and correct. They must study various books on astrology published by scholars, as well as the original works propounded by our sages. They must think, analyse, and understand the spirit of the rules and apply them. They will come to the conclusion that stellar astrology is the best, most simple, and astoundingly accurate. They should record both fulfilled and unfulfilled predictions. When a prediction comes true by adopting certain principles, they should follow the same. If a method fails, they should find out what modifications are needed. They should not be discouraged by initial failures, as no child can run a race without falling down many times while attempting to walk in infancy, and no cyclist can learn to ride without some scratches and bruises. If an experienced cyclist assists the learner, they may avoid injuries. Similarly, a Guru, by the side of the student who predicts, will guide and correct them whenever necessary, which will give the student zeal as they come out successful. Study circles and astrological groups should be formed to discuss various problems and clear doubts. When predicting, the astrologer must thoroughly understand the querist's temperament. Even if the querist does not like to hear evil, the astrologer should still mention it, but express it in a very mild form. Just as a physician gives sugarcoated pills to a patient who dislikes bitter medicine, the astrologer should give the necessary information without allowing the querist to feel the bitterness.

The Astrologer: Qualifications and Considerations
The astrologer should not guess, but rather possess the power of correct judgement and interpretation. They should have a good vocabulary and use appropriate words. Intuition also plays a part, for which devotion to God and prayers without any disturbance are needed. The astrologer should enjoy peace of mind and be above wants, with no worries at all. To be a leader among astrologers, one should be able to argue, convince, and establish the correctness of their predictions. It is for the public to certify whether one is an able astrologer or not, and whether one can offer astounding predictions or not. It is unbecoming of an astrologer to boast themselves as an expert, except on such occasions when it may be absolutely necessary to create faith in others and impress upon them what they want to convey. An astrologer should not be over-confident; they should be calm, apply correct principles, follow many methods, and give clear indications. They should not exaggerate facts, etc.; otherwise they invite trouble later. They should never forget their limitations.

The astrologer should also understand psychology. For example, a lady was much worried for having issues at minimum intervals and all of them were girls. Again she was in the family way. If an astrologer, simply to please her, were to say that she would have a boy, they run double risk. Because, if again a girl is born to her, it is no wonder that the astrologer is not only abused by the party but also anti-propaganda will be carried on by a few of them in season and out of season as they are (1) disgusted and (2) disappointed. If the astrologer had told that she could expect a girl on this occasion also and if it is a boy in their joy the astrologer is excused. But if a girl is born as predicted, they will appreciate the science and wait for better luck at least next time.

Incorrect predictions bring ridicule to the science and also misfortune to the astrologer. One should be tactful also. It is advisable to predict correctly, not forgetting one's future, or better confess and dispose of the querist saying that they have not specialised that particular branch of the science.

Can a medical expert undertake to treat patients suffering from all diseases? Can an Engineer be an expert in all the branches of Engineering? Similarly, an astrologer can specialise in any aspect and cannot master all the branches.

One can be an astrologer if one's horoscope satisfies many of the following conditions. Uranus is traditionally (according to Westerners) the strongest planet to give knowledge in astrology. Hindus take Mercury (Budha) as the planet which creates interest in astrology. In fact, all prominent astrologers have not had Uranus always strong in their horoscopes. But it will be seen that Saturn and Mercury have much to do with astrology. (Have we not heard the usual proverb "Aye! That fellow has Saturn in the tongue? Vakkil Sani. Ever predicts evil and never he fails).

Mr. Carter warns those in whose charts Mercury and Jupiter are heavily afflicted to be very cautious when they forecast. From that, one can understand that Mercury should not be afflicted, as it is the astrological planet. He also says that Uranus is unsuited to practical exigencies, as one will commonly lack tact and patience which are the essentials for an astrologer. One is to be practical. Earthy signs, and planets Mars and Saturn make one useful and practical. Planets in airy signs may make one unpractical and dreamy. Fiery usually produce practical people but not always prudent or discreet people. Those born in Thulam (Libra) and airy sign, may employ themselves in flattering others and often fall easy victims to it. Astrologers should not under any circumstances flatter others and exaggerate things.

People having a planet in Kumba or Meena (Aquarius and Pisces) afflicting Uranus in any part of the map will be unconventional, original, and Bohemian. They may disregard the established custom and ancient traditions and many may be perverted.

People with any of the following combinations and favourable aspects can learn astrology and be useful to the querists: Western scholars are of opinion that Saturn and Moon give immense appetite to learn astrology, especially when they are in 1, 3, 9 or 10th Bhava (Houses). Saturn and Moon make the native industrious, honest, patient, plodding and persevering, all of which are essential to an astrologer. Uranus has a special attraction to astrology, but success or failure depends on the other aspects which Uranus receives. It may make one a research scholar or a perverted person with much of egoism, whereas astrology is meant more to subdue egoism. Good aspects and connection between Jupiter, Mercury and Uranus assist one to consider deeply, judge properly and interpret correctly. Mars' beneficial aspect to those planets gives the astrologer the argumentative faculty, the desire to succeed in the material field, and to lead in all pursuits. Only when Moon and Mercury have harmonious aspects, one can have clear exposition, proper wording, good vocabulary and intuition. Moon is called the mind. It is like a mirror exactly reflecting the object. Mercury is for supreme intelligence, as it governs the central nervous system. It is like a lens. Therefore, whenever these two planets either form or receive favourable aspects, they give high imagination, linguistic capability, keen observation, intuitive perception, quick grasp, retentive power, reproductive ability, fluency of speech and general success, especially in astrology. So, those who have strong Mercury will thoroughly analyse, properly apply and correctly predict. Saturn and Mercury forming good aspect in one's chart give concentration and depth of thought. The native will be exact, precise and methodical. He will be a good mathematician with competence on calculations. He will have much forethought, persistence and reasoning ability. Venus conjoined with Uranus can give one the desire to learn astrology. A few may have titles conferred on them, if Venus and Uranus receive good aspects from Saturn, Moon and Jupiter. Good aspect to Jupiter from other planets removes worries and allows one to pray to God. One can have the divine grace and intuition. In Horasara, Prithuyasas says that the person at whose birth Moon occupies Cancer (Kataka) will be an astrologer. It does not mean that all Cancer borns will learn astrology or at least have faith in astrology. Here one is to combine the Western System of prediction and find out the aspect that is being formed between the position of Moon at birth in Cancer and that of Saturn, Mercury and Uranus in the chart. If Uranus were to form adverse aspects with Moon, one will be perverted. If Mercury afflicts Moon, one will utter falsehood or whatever one tries to predict will not come true, especially when the period one runs, is governed by Moon and Mercury. Moon afflicted by Saturn does not allow one to concentrate nor will he have self-confidence but be diffident. Vaidyanatha Dikshitha, in Jataka Parijatham, mentions that people born in the years Prabhava and Kalayukthi will be proficient in astrology. Also, those born in Sathayam or Sathabheeshaik Nakshatra and those born in Sakuna Karana will be astrologers. Here also, one is to take that all people born either in Prabhava or Kalayukthi year or Sathabhishak Star or Sakuna Karana, unless they have good aspects among Moon, Mercury, Saturn and Uranus, cannot learn astrology and predict correctly. Mahadeva, in Jataka Tatva, has said that people having Venus and Mercury in the 2nd or the 3rd house, or people having Mercury in 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10 or 11th house, or people born in Gemini, having exalted Jupiter and those who have the lord of the second house in good strength will be good astrologers. Even though in the majority of cases these rules will come true, yet, due to other evil aspects, a few may not have any desire to learn astrology and a few may even ridicule it due to the affliction.
Often wise people say, "Gathanu Gathiko Lokaha Na Lokaha Pararharthikaha", by that, they mean that one should not blindly follow the rules expounded but take pains to find out the truth and understand their spirit. This is strictly followed by the author. Therefore, it is necessary for one to take all these into consideration to find out whether the planetary aspects are beneficial to learn astrology and then decide who can make the best use of it by consulting learned and wise astrologers. Editing and predicting are different. Prediction is the real problem. Editing is not difficult. If Jupiter, Mercury and Mars have favourable aspects one can edit and publish, because Jupiter's aspect to Mercury produces journalists who need command of language, a somewhat encyclopedic range of knowledge and deep knowledge of one particular subject. It is desirable to have a delicate touch on the pulse of the public. Jupiter assists in rendering the matter in the publication suited to the needs of the readers and makes it popular. If the editor keenly desires to impart information of an educative type, Mercury should be favourable and strong. If Mercury and Mars form evil aspects, the editor will like to fight, if not in reality, yet in words. If both the planets occupy favourable signs, then the capacity for satire will be a useful asset to him. Mars forming good aspect with Mercury gives good humour and be fortunate to own a Press, as Mars indicates machinery and Mercury, paper, news, etc. Guru's beneficial aspect increases the income, improves the standard, expand the business, increases the circulation and makes the book popular. Saturn's aspect will restrict the activities and increase the debts. Further, there will be labour trouble or the release of the books will be unduly delayed and people will get vexed and dejected. Neptune's evil aspect shows that every venture will be started in a flash which will soon end in a crash. Lords of 2, 9 and 11 forming good aspects mutually among themselves and with the great benefic Jupiter will offer the most desirable results to the astrologer and to the consultant.