## Mercury: THE UNCLE

Astronomy: Mercury - The Dualist
Sun has Mercury as its closest neighbor, even as the Earth has the Moon; Mercury is bigger than the Moon, but smaller than the Earth. It is an average of about 36 million miles away from the Sun. The distance varies between 29 million miles and 43 million miles. This is due to the fact that the orbit of Mercury is eccentric and much elongated. It revolves around the Sun in 88 days. Its diameter is nearly 3,200 miles. As the size of Mercury is very small, and its mass is very little, its gravitational pull is naturally very weak.

There is no atmosphere around it. As Mercury is very near the Sun, and the Earth is also revolving around the Sun, there will be occasions when we can note this tiny planet, Mercury, transiting between the Sun and the Earth, and it will be seen in the disc of the Sun. It will appear as a black sharp disc. No ring of light will be visible, which is evidence that there is no atmosphere. If there were to be any atmosphere, the Sun's rays would pass through it and due to refraction it would form a ring around Mercury. As there is no atmosphere, no animal can exist.

Further, one half of Mercury will always be very hot and it will be around 360 degrees centigrade; and the other half will be very cold, much cooler than our Arctic regions during severe winter. Mercury takes as much time to revolve about itself once on its axis as it takes to go once around the Sun. Hence one half of Mercury will always receive the rays of light and heat from the Sun, whereas the other half will always remain in night without having the chance to see the Sun at all. Thus, that half of Mercury facing the Sun is always hot and the other half is always cold. Even though Mercury is about 36 million miles away from the Sun, it is not easy to see Mercury with the naked eye as it will always be very near the Sun and the maximum longitudinal distance between the Sun and it will be 28 degrees. Its speed is 95,000 miles per hour.

Mythology: In olden days, it was known as Thoth or Hermes. It is the son of Jupiter and Maia, the daughter of Atlas. He is said to be the friend of Apollo, probably because it is in the closest vicinity to the Sun. Mercury is called a youth flying with wings at his heels, bearing a caduceus made of olive wood about which were entwined two serpents, the rod being surmounted with a pair of wings. Indeed, this symbol represents speed, wisdom, and duality. Mercury is the inventor of the lyre. He is the god of commerce or gold, eloquence, and always exhibits duality and lacks concentration. Though Mercury is the intellectual planet, he is called a convertible and mutable planet and Mercurians will generally possess a will-o'-the-wisp character.

Hindus regard Mercury as representing gods Kesava, Narayana, Madhava, etc. He represents Dwaitham, whereas Saturn denotes Advaitham, as Mercury is for plurality while Saturn is for the single one. If one wants to propitiate a god and if the person has the following combinations in his horoscope or if Mercury has any connection with other planets by occupying their sign, etc., he has to make a judicious choice and cultivate steady habits, concentrate, and meditate properly, as Mercury denotes vacillation and lack of concentration.

Mercury rules the Atharvana Veda. He governs Sarat Ruthu (October and November). The following combinations are to be taken into consideration and proper initiation is necessary to have peace and prosperity:

Mercury --- Vishnu 
Mercury and Sun --- Suryanarayana 
Mercury and Moon --- Goddess Saraswathi 
Mercury and Mars --- Narasimha, Veera Raghava 
Mercury and Jupiter --- Bhadrinarayana 
Mercury and Venus --- Laxmi Narayana 
Mercury and Saturn --- Anjaneya
Mercury, Saturn and Venus --- Krishna 
Mercury, Venus and Mars --- Lakshmi Narasimha 
Mercury, Mars and Saturn --- Venkateswara
Mercury, Moon and Saturn --- Renganatha
Mercury, Moon and Jupiter --- Rama (Sundarakandam)
Mercury, Jupiter and Saturn --- Geetha Parayanam and will be a great liar.

Astrology: Mercury is a variable, convertible, vacillating, feminine, effeminate, neutral, and dualistic planet. Just as a messenger has to carry out the orders of others and act on their behalf, so also Mercury will not act independently but expresses a nature in accordance with the nature of the planet with which he is conjoined or from which he receives aspects. He is called convertible because he will prove to be a benefic to those in whose horoscopes Mercury is conjoined with or aspected by benefics, whereas he becomes a malefic if he is in any way connected with evil planets. He rules Gemini and Virgo. Mercury gets exalted in Virgo and is very weak and debilitated in Pisces (Meena). His friends are Saturn and Venus, whereas his enemies are Sun, Moon, Mars, and Jupiter.

Mercury shows the type of mentality one is endowed with, as he governs the reaction to one's senses and impressions. He rules over the solar plexus and the central nervous system. Being an intellectual planet, the Mercurian is highly intelligent, ingenious, and analytical. He will grasp subjects very quickly. He gives the native retentive power and reproductive ability. Mercury with good aspects represents a subtle political brain and intellect, and an excellent disputant, a logician with learning, and discretion. He makes one a researcher into mysteries and learning, sharp and witty, learning almost anything without a teacher, and ambitious of being exquisite in every science. Mercury gives one the desire to make frequent short travels and see foreign places. He gives curiosity to master occult science also. The greatest drawback is that he does not allow one to be steady enough to complete a project. Therefore, a Mercurian has to exercise his will and follow up any undertaking since, at each stage, his attention will be drawn to other matters, with the result that nothing will ever get completed, unless and until he has exercised perseverance and steadiness. Restlessness and variability are Mercury's characteristics.

Mercury, when afflicted by other planets, makes the person frenetic. He will be a clever, cunning, and mischievous anonymous petition-writer. His tongue and pen will ever be against those whom he does not like. He will turn out to be a great gambler, the worst liar, a conceited, showy person, with vain-glorious statements extolling himself, or a prattler talking in a childish and artless fashion. Such an afflicted Mercurian will be a cheat or be ever busy carrying tales and uttering falsehood, mostly forgetting what he had already said. Further, he will neither stick to one place nor to one opinion. He is termed "Lotamama" as he will side with one party when he finds some advantage there and on the same day he will change his coat, join the opponent, and advocate the latter's cause. He will pretend as though he knows everything, whereas actually he is void of real learning. He will be a talkative person, perverted, eccentric, unprincipled, inconstant, and boastful. He will worry himself by being hasty. He will commit mistakes due to forgetfulness. He is a man of moods and will be a great liar.

The Effects of Mercury in Dignity and Receiving Favourable Aspects

Mercury in dignity and receiving favourable aspects makes one versatile, good in mathematical calculations, engineering, accounts, and correspondence. They have a keen intuition and ability, but the tendency to allow their attention to wander can stand in the way of their grand success. However, if they take up things seriously, they will be "quick on the trigger" and work rapidly and accurately, coming out successful in all their enterprises.

Mercury is a talkative planet, so persons ruled by Mercury will prove to be good salesmen, insurance agents, publicity officials, propagandists, orators, and eloquent and fast speakers with ready wit, and they will be capable of learning many languages (the language depends on the other connections which Mercury has). If Mercury is afflicted in one's chart, generally the native may commit a blunder during the previous Saturn period which will be talked about by the general public during the Mercury period, bringing scandal and ill-repute to the native.

As Mercury governs the green colour, the choice during Mercury's period will be mostly green. Mercury indicating the north direction shows that the person, during Mercury's period, will have to move towards the north direction. If Mercury is a benefic, the native will make their fortune in the north, and if Mercury is a malefic, they will go to the north and suffer. Mercury's number is five, so during Mercury's periods, they will own a car whose numerology is 5; if they shift their residence, they will occupy a house whose numerological number is 5 (14;23;3241;50 and so on). Even when they engage a taxi, the number will be five. Thus the planets will work. Good results or adverse ones depend on the beneficial or adverse aspect which Mercury receives. Mercury is the chief governor for education and uncle.

Physical Features
Usually, he will be tall with a well-formed body. He may be stout, but will usually be of average height. His hands will be long and slender, and his hair will be dark. His eyes will be expressive, and his eyebrows will be curved with much hair. His voice will be thin and shrill; if afflicted, he will stammer. He will walk very quickly, and will appear younger than his actual age.

Aspects with Other Planets
Mercury cannot form any major aspect according to the Western system, as it can never be more than 28 degrees from the Sun. Mercury can be both in advance of the Sun and also behind the Sun. If it rises before the Sun and is in advance, the native cannot be as intelligent as the one born with Mercury rising after the Sun; that is, the longitude of Mercury will then be less than that of the Sun. However, the conjunction of the Sun and Mercury in the same house will give the native resourcefulness, shrewdness, adaptability, and an adjusting temperament. He will have the capacity to create pleasure in any surrounding or environment, as well as under all circumstances.

There is a difference of opinion in estimating the strength of Mercury if it is within the orb of 17 degrees. Some say that Mercury loses its power, but others opine that it does not lose its strength. Many great people have the Sun and Mercury close to each other, with Mercury being within 3 degrees from the Sun. Chief Engineers, Accountant Generals, and Publicity officials have the Sun and Mercury in close proximity, and they have their promotion in Mercury period and Sun sub-period, showing that the Sun and Mercury have produced very intelligent people and that they enjoyed very good prospects during their joint periods. The Sun and Mercury will offer much literary success, an inclination to study Astrology, Astronomy, Engineering, and Mathematics. The person will be ambitious, intuitive, intelligent, quick-witted, thoughtful, studious, capable, and aspiring. He will learn business tactics easily. The aspects which can be formed are conjunction, vigintile, quindecile, parallel, and within 2 degrees from semi-sextile.
 Sun is Karaka for medicine).

Moon and Mercury: Good Aspect of Moon and Mercury shows that the person will be quick in wit and reasonable, have a fertile imagination and fluent expression, and be able to learn many languages easily. They will have original ideas and enjoy frequent changes and short journeys, and never be pessimistic. As age advances, imagination and intuition will increase, and they will develop any art with some competence therein. Moon gives success in correspondence, advertising, conversation, etc. If the aspects are adverse, they will be worried, anxious, and confused with a sarcastic state of mind. Moon makes one indecisive, speculative, and sensitive, with poor memory. Temporary upset through troubles in the nervous or digestive system, writing, signing, or entering into a wrong contract, public criticism, and loss in business are indicated. It is advisable for them not to stand surety to anybody, and dealings with close relatives will not be happy. Travels will bring in loss, so cautious action is necessary to avoid slander and fraud. It is not beneficial to change any house, especially when their joint period operates.

The results mentioned for each aspect will be experienced by the native whenever they run the joint periods of those planets according to the Ududasa system, and also whenever they form aspects by progression or by transit. The extent to which it will be enjoyed during progression is much greater than what one can have during transit.

Mars, forming good aspects with Mercury, shows that the native will be healthy, active, and alert, never lazy or lethargic. Quick turn-over of work, ability to organize original and novel ideas, and shortcut methods are offered jointly by Mars and Mercury. The native will always be working, as this aspect makes them lively, witty, humorous, ingenious, constructive, skilful, practical, and business-like. They will show a keen interest in work, do it with zeal, and exhibit their mental ability. They will have an inclination towards instrumental music, mechanical or ground engineering, carving, drawing, industry, factory, chemistry, and medicine (if the Sun also conjoins, as the Sun is the Karaka for medicine).

Venus stands for Vahana, meaning vehicle, or when Mercury or Mars is the lord of the fourth house. Mars and Mercury forming favourable aspects and occupying watery signs show that the person may be attached to boiler engines, the Navy, etc. In earthy signs, it indicates mechanical engineering and ground engineering. In airy signs, it denotes that the person will be attached to aircrafts, the electricity department, or one who surveys, designs, and prepares estimates. In fiery signs, it indicates that the person will be connected with industry, factories, etc. Mars forming an evil aspect with Mercury gives the subject great mental activity and intellectual power. He will be impulsive and rash, and will get irritated and order people around, and may even be violent. If Mercury or Mars has any connection with the significator of the partner in life, there will be disharmony and they may even manhandle each other. Colic pains, piles, and fissures are also indicated by these two planets.

Disputes, litigation, loss through theft, risky ventures, careless correspondence, hasty decisions leading to public scandal and criticism are threatened by bad aspects. While good aspects give the person the capacity to make their fortune in quick buying and selling, by being a broker or a jobber, bad aspects will give them courage and foolhardiness to speculate and lose. They will lose through fraud, cheating, and forgery, or they themselves will commit such crimes. If either of the two planets happens to be the lord of the sixth or twelfth house, they will be cheated. If either is the lord of the ascendant, they themselves will be a criminal.

Good Aspects between Mercury and Jupiter

Good aspects between Mercury and Jupiter give the native clear thinking, correct forethought, and good judgement. He will be prudent and wise, possessing a broad and philosophical mind. He will be versatile, constructive, creative, hopeful, optimistic, jovial, and contented. His disposition will be humane; he will be honest, law-abiding, God-fearing, religious-minded, and liberal. He will be fond of making religious and professional trips and will have inspirational ideas. He will be a good journalist, correspondent, copyist, writer, cashier, auditor, inspector, etc. If a person expects such a service, he can enter into any of these when he runs their joint periods or it may be one planet's sub-period and the other planet's sub-sub-period. When later he enjoys the dasa of either, he can be sure of his promotion and prosperity. If Mars also has any connection, one can become the agent of a bank, treasury collector, revenue officer, etc. He will be a good astrologer, always predicting good results and offering mental solace to the depressed.

Bad Aspects between Jupiter and Mercury

Bad aspects between Jupiter and Mercury show difficulties, obstacles, misfortune, bad investments, verbal agreements which will not be fulfilled, signing of contracts bringing loss, correspondence leading to litigation and troubles, quarrels with the preceptor, trouble in the assessment and payment of taxes, false reports, falsification of accounts, scandal, ill-repute, loss or accident during travel, etc. The health of the person will suffer due to excesses, frequent feasts, vitamin B deficiency, dyspepsia, lack of enzymes, etc. He may get into editing, publishing, journalism, religion, law, banking, insurance, investment, speculation, literature, commerce, accounts, administrative departments in engineering, treasury, income-tax, sales-tax, etc., and earn his livelihood. He should not overtrade. Sun and Venus on the other side.)

Mercury and Venus Forming Good Aspects Indicate the Native Will Be Cheerful and Mirthful

Mercury and Venus can never be as far away from the Sun as other planets; Mercury can be 28 degrees away from the Sun and Venus 48 degrees. There may be occasions when Mercury is on one side of the Sun and Venus is on the other side.

At one time, the Sun and Venus can be only 76 degrees apart. This creates the following aspects: vigintile, quindecile, semi-sextile, semi-quintile, semi-square, sextile, quintile, conjunction, and parallel. Except for the semi-square, all of these aspects are considered to be favorable and will likely offer desirable results.

The native with good aspects will have a hopeful, intuitive, good-tempered, sociable, friendly, amiable, and merry mind. They will enjoy recreation, fine arts, and refinement. They will also hate disputes and disharmony. Financially, this aspect promises gain of property and shares in flourishing companies, as well as a happy married life with a beautiful and intelligent wife. The native will also enjoy both social and financial success.

Mercury and Saturn Aspect

Mercury offers the native steadiness, carefulness, good judgement, precision, methodical approach to any subject, good memory, etc. If Mercury occupies or owns the 2nd, 7th or 11th house, it often denotes that the person will have two attachments at least and many partners in business. This aspect is essential for making money through mental accomplishments, such as writing comedies (Saturn for tragedies), speaking at clubs and societies, designing and laying out, pleasant journeys, arranging for picnic parties, travel agencies, clerks, cinema, drama advertisers, commerce, shipping, and transport (Watery sign occupied by them indicates shipping; airy sign shows air travel, dealing in antiques and curios). Further, they indicate that the person will make money through luxuries, beautiful or scented articles, painting, or through music, radio, transistor, gramophone, etc., jewellery, dress-making, confectionary, etc. They may also gain through children, wife and ladies.

If Saturn forms good aspects with Mercury, the native will have strong will, perseverance, patience, persistence and determination to fulfill their desires. They may have the aspiration to lead in politics and hold jobs in corporations, government and such companies where security of services is assured. They will thrive in such a business where caution, prudence and good judgement are required. Jupiter, lending its assistance by its good aspect, indicates that they can teach these subjects in school.

If the aspect between Saturn and Mercury is evil, all their efforts will be delayed; they may be disappointed and depressed. It may cause disharmony and dispute, and lead to debts and disease. Their education will be poor, memory poor, finance poor, health poor and retentive power absolutely absent. If they were to run their joint periods during school days, they will be spotted as the dullest student in the class.