## Astrology - available data incomplete
Astrology today is incomplete and needs to be vastly supplemented. No one is in possession of all the findings of our sages; nor are we blessed with such a Guru who can impart correct scientific knowledge to us. Whatever we may have today is only a part of what they have left behind. A subject taught by a professor will be complete. We are not fortunate to have such an advantage in our lifetime. So with what little literature we possess, we have to understand the fundamental principles and then, by regular and strenuous work, develop it.
Another disadvantage is that in India there are many languages and the subjects were written mostly in verses. The first difficulty is to translate them correctly into the respective languages and get them printed. Hence all the books that are printed in Tamil are not found in Gujarati, Marathi, Hindi, Telugu, Kannada or Malayalam. Some books in Gujarati are not available in Tamil; nor are they heard of by Tamils.
In each language, only new books are produced. Many are left out due to various reasons, the main one being the cost of printing and the lack of satisfactory encouragement from any source. Hence the ancient literature available in each place is incomplete like a torn-out dictionary. It is a part of the whole. This is one of the main reasons why we feel the need to have a study circle and do research.
When we hear complaints from astrological-minded people, we find that they do not ridicule the science of astrology but only those astrologers whom they consulted. The main reason for the failure of most of the astrologers is due to the defects in their methods of interpretation and their incapacity to satisfy the qualifications prescribed by Varahamihira.
