## Qualifications of an astrologer
The sage says that an astrologer should come from a noble family, should be attractive, have a temperate disposition, be honest, impartial, and have a good physique. They should be active and courageous, articulate, witty, sincere, and free from vices, with no stage-fright. They should worship Devas, observe fasts and penance, and be knowledgeable in astronomy and astrology, including the five schools of thought in India: Paulisa, Romaka Siddhanta, Vasishta, Saura, and Paitamaha. The astrologer should be familiar with all the Siddhantas and be able to understand objections and points of difference. The sage assures that when an astrologer has thoroughly understood the mathematical portion and has acquired the sound principles of astrology, their predictions and teachings will never fail. He asks, "How could one who has not understood the spirit of the Sastras be called an astrologer?" and adds that they are only a fool whose interpretation is just opposite to the principles expounded by the sages and who makes mistakes in their calculations. Varahamihira admits, "It is easy for anybody to cross a sea if the breeze is favourable, but it is not possible for a person who is not a sailor to reach the other shore of the ocean of astrology". Varahamihira opines that even sages in forests, free from domestic worry, pride, and prejudice, welcome the astrologer and without hesitation take interest in astrology when they, by chance, meet a wise astrologer.