## Advice to the Administrator
He advised the Kings that just as the night does not shine without a lamp and the sky without the Sun, so also the King cannot have a smooth life without proper guidance. He warned that the Kings will have pitfalls, like a blind pedestrian, if he has no astrologer to guide him properly, well in advance.
Varahamihira reiterated thus: "Therefore, a King who desires to maintain fame and enjoy an all-round success must engage the services of a few leading astrologers who are not only versatile but also clever, well-versed, and skilled in this science of prognostication".
He turned to the people of the nation and went to the extent of saying, "One who is longing for peace and prosperity should avoid living in a place where no astrologer is available" even as Owaiyar said, "Don't live in a place where there is no temple".
Varahamihira feared that a King who does not patronize such astrologers, who satisfy these qualifications, will surely come to grief and will be denied mental solace.
Varahamihira encouraged and cheered up such astrologers saying that no man or woman who studies the science of astrology and divines the course of destiny will be seen in Hell. In this world, by Hell we mean worry, anxiety, disharmony, depression, disappointment, and no ray of hope for redemption. After death, none knows what Hell is. It may be a rebirth to suffer further. Thus, astrology does contribute beneficial effects to one and all, including the astrologer: in whichever caste or creed the astrologer may be born, it does not matter, he is honored.
Varahimihira said that the Yavanas were of low birth. When astrology had come to stay with them, they were adored. Even now, if astrologers of their standard were available, they will be honored as astrologers, and they can gain much influence and render real assistance to all those who approach them, even as a river in space can quench the thirst of the human beings, animals, birds, aquatics, plants, trees, etc. But a quack is like a deep and dangerous river, putting an end to the life of one by wetting the banks, dragging him to the depth, immersing him to the bottom, keeping him there itself for some time, and finally lifting him up to float, dead.

