## About the Author
The author of this book, (Late) Professor K.S. Krishnamurti, was born on 1st November 1908 at Thiruvaiyaru in Tanjore District, Tamilnadu. After his successful schooling, he graduated from St. Joseph College, Trichy in 1937. He moved to Chennai in 1941 and joined the Government Service as a Sanitary Inspector. During this period, he developed an interest in occult science and studied in depth the available literatures on Indian and Western Astro-Science. He observed that the predictive principles enunciated in those books were very general, ambiguous, and full of alternatives, and even if properly applied, never pinpointed precisely the nature and time of the event in question. This prompted him to vow to find a solution to make Astrology a perfect science, revive its fair name and reputation, and restore its importance and utility to mankind.

He started collecting numerous horoscopes including twin births for study and analysis. He spent more than thirteen years in research work and finally succeeded in discovering a unique formula of his own, which could be applied universally to Natal/Annual/Horary horoscopes to predict events very accurately. He verified his new found ‘Stellar’ and ‘Sub’ theory for its accuracy by applying it on various horoscopes including twins and got fully convinced himself. He titled his discovery as ‘Krishnamurti Padhdhati’.

In 1951, he was fortunate to receive an idol of 'Lord Uchishta Mahaganapathi' from His Holiness Sankaracharya of Kamakoti, Kanchi Mutt. Inspired by the blessings of Jagadguru and divine graces of Uchishta Mahaganapathi, he started vigorously to transmit the fruits of his research and knowledge to all, unmindful of criticisms about his theory voiced by a few. To fulfill his aspirations, he took voluntary retirement from service in 1961 and undertook long journeys to all parts of India and propagated his findings. He delivered lectures daily for two weeks at the North Indian Cities, Junar, Poona, Kirkee, Kolhapur, Sholapur, and Ahmednagar, in response to wishes of number of Astrologers there.

Finding his method scientific, convincing, clear, and very correct, more and more people approached him for Astrological counselling and they were flabbergasted by his quick, accurate, and uncanny predictions. To make further development and research on his system, Sri K.S.K. established the "Modern Stellar Astrological Research Institute" at Madras. In 1963, he started publishing a monthly magazine, "Astrology and Athrishta" to spread his system not only in India but also in many countries of East and West.

Convinced by his scientific explanations and uncanny predictions, Kulapati K.M. Munshi, Chancellor of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, appointed Sri.K.S. Krishnamurti as visiting professor of Astrology in India, to deliver lectures regularly at Delhi, Bombay, and Madras and occasionally in other kendras. They also honoured him by conferring the title ‘Jyothish Marthand’ with a gold medal, through Dr. P.V. Cherian, the then Governor of Bombay. In June 1970, he visited Kuala Lumpur on being invited by ‘The Malayan Astrological Society’ which conferred on him the title “Sothida Mannan’ with a gold medal. He stayed there for about six weeks and delivered lectures at various places. He visited Sri Lanka in November 1970, to fulfill the wishes of the people there.

Sri K.S. Krishnamurti had written and released six books styled “Krishnamurti Padhdhati Readers’ (including 'Horary Astrology’ and “Gocharapala Nirnayam') in which he explained exhaustively his principles and methods of predicting any event very accurately. In spite of his eminence, he was very simple in his thought and living.

After passing away of 'Guruji' (as Prof.K.S.K. was then called with reverence) in March 1972, his son Sri K. Subramaniam, who was groomed by his father, took over the editorship of ‘Astrology and Athrishta. He successfully ran the magazine until 1994, after which it was converted to a yearly publication instead of a monthly one. Further, with a view to propagate the K.P. System effectively, he established his own Publication company, Krishman & Co, at Chennai, through which he published not only Prof. K.S.K's readers periodically but also many books written by himself and by other eminent present day K.P. Astrologers.