## BEHAVIOUR OF PLANETS

To make the book handy, this chapter is written in a concise form. One can find that different results are offered by the same planet as it occupies the constellation owned by those ruling different houses (Bhavas) in the chart. There are 12 houses and 27 constellations. These 27 constellations are governed by 9 planets. Therefore, a planet offers results after the corresponding modification due to its position in a particular constellation, which is ruled by planet governing certain house or houses in the chart.

One should take the following delineations into account at the time of judgement:

1. Whether the planet is strong or weak by noting the sign in which it is.
2. Whether it is in a favourable and beneficial sub or in unfavourable sub.
3. Whether it is conjoined with any other planet.
4. The nature of the planet whether it is a benefit or a malefic.
5. Whether the sign occupied by the planet is fiery, earthy, airy or watery; cardinal, fixed or common; fruitful or barren, masculine or feminine; human or bestial; mute or voice; etc. and any house give the results as is changed by the constellation lord.

What results are indicated by a planet in that star or while a planet transits in that asterism. Suppose one is born in Taurus - Rishbaha Lagna, also suppose Sun is in Rohini, Venus in Mrigasira; Saturn in Ashlesha, then Sun gives the results of Moon governing Rohini, owning 3rd house to Taurus. Sun gives such results given under "Moon as the constellation lord of 3". Venus in Mrigasira governed by Mars owning the 7th and 12th houses. Hence Venus will give both the results given under "Mars as the constellation lord of 7" and "Mars as the constellation lord of 12". Saturn in Ashlesha, for Taurus born, will give the results given under "Mercury as the constellation lord of 2" and "Mercury as the constellation lord of 5" as Ashlesha is governed by Mercury.

But, it is found, that the occupants are much stronger. So one is to note down which houses are occupied by each planet. If Sun occupies the 3rd house to say Aquarius-born one is to read the results given under Sun as the constellation lord of 7 and in 3; the results indicated by Sun in 3 will be more predominant than Sun as lord of 7. Both results will be enjoyed. Let us take another example, Suppose one is born in Virgo; Sun owns the 12th house; suppose it is occupying the 7th house. Then the results given under "Sun constellation lord (of 7 or) in 7" will predominantly operate. Also results given under Sun, constellation lord of the 12th house to Virgo born will be experienced. Thus one is to consider in which house a planet is posited.

Thus, one has to analyse, blend and modify the indications. The following delineation is a general one.

In our experience, after a long research, it is found that a planet may occupy a house, for example, the 11th house; but the result offered by that planet during its dasa or bhukthi or anthra and at the time when it receives aspects from other planets is different, it causes loss and separation instead of profit and pleasure. But the result that is experienced is not the same as the house signifies. Rather, one experiences predominantly the results of the bhavas, signified by the lord of the constellation in which the planet is posited in the horoscope. Therefore, the following results without any other modification are given for each planet owning different houses influencing the constellation lords of the 12 houses. It will be helpful to the students to understand how a planet offers results, completely changed by the lord of the constellation and it is the lord of the sub which indicated whether the matter signified by the planet is advantageous or disadvantageous. It may be mentioned hereafter a planet as the constellation lord of 1 or 2 or 3 and so on. It means that the planet to that person, owns a particular house, either Lagna or 2nd house or 3rd house and so on. It governs three constellations. Any planet may occupy one of the 3 stars. So, this planet indicates the results of the lord of the constellation who may own one house or two houses. Then give importance to the house occupied by the planet. Read the results given for that planet.

Let us take a third example. Suppose one is born in Capricorn, Mars is occupying the 6th house. If a planet were to be situated in one of the 3 stars governed by Mars (Mrigasira, Chithrai or Dhanishta), then one is to read (a) Mars as constellation lord in 6 and (b) the results given under Mars, constellation lord of 4 and constellation lord of 11. Of these results, the planets in the constellation of Mars will predominantly give the results of the 6th house. It also includes the other results given as the lord of 4 and 11.

Rahu and Kethu will occupy a house. They govern the stars Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha, Aswini, Maka and Moola. So planets situated in these stars will offer the results as indicated by either Rahu or Kethu according to the house occupied by them. Further, one should include the results of the lord of the constellation and then the lord of the sign in which Rahu and Kethu is posited, it is explained in the end of this chapter.

Summing up the explanation, let me put all these in a nutshell. Note in which star a planet is; who is the lord of the constellation; in which house this lord is posited and to which houses he is the owner. Then read as follows: Lord of the constellation in house (occupant). Lord of the constellation owing houses (lordship). All the results indicated will be experienced during the period of the planet situated in that constellation.

### SUN
Sun governs the stars Karthigai, Uthrapalguni and Uthrashada. Whatever be the planets and whichever house they own or occupy, they will, when situated in Sun's star, offer results of the house portrayed by Sun only.

For example, if one is born in Karkata Lagna and Sun is occupying Aries in the 10th house, a planet, whatever it may be, will bestow the results indicated by Sun i.e. 10th house predominantly, than Sun as Lord of 2. Suppose Venus occupies Karthikai star, then Venus gives the matters signified by 10th house more predominantly than the matters indicated by 2nd house. Venus is the source to fulfil such matters, according to its own ownership, nature and occupation.

By Sun in 1 or lord of 1 means if Sun occupies the Lagna Bhava or if Sun happens to be Lord of Lagna, the results given under Sun in 1 or Lord of 1 are offered by a planet in Sun's stars to all Lagna borns when Sun is in 1 and to Leo borns when Sun is lord of 1. Similarly, a planet in Uthrapalguni star will offer the results of the 5th house matters, whatever be the Bhava it occupies, if Sun is in 5, to all Lagna borns. Also the same results will be given if Sun is Lord of 5 i.e., for Aries lagna born alone.

Therefore, the results that are given below as Sun in 1 or lord of 1 means that these results will be given by any planet, situated in any of the 3 stars of Sun viz. Karthikai, Uthraphalguni and Uthrashada when its period or subperiod runs. If it is said merely 2 or 3 or 4 it means a planet in the constellation Sun will give the results of the 2nd house matters when Sun occupies or owns the 2nd house. By 3 it is meant that a planet will give the matters of the 3rd house if it occupies the constellation of Sun and when Sun either occupies or owns the 3rd house. Similarly for all planets one to read the results. Any planet in Karthik or Uthraphalguni or Uthrashada Stars will offer the results according the house occupied by Sun and also owned by Sun.

1. Sun in 1 or lord of 1, Generous, determined, frank, dignity, independent, hopeful, good constitution, satisfactory immunity, successful attempts, good relationship with officers, promotion, smooth life, defective vision, boastful.
2. Inheritance, gain by one's industry or through Government or holding responsible position. Generous, social, fond of sports and pleasure. If afflicted, loss of money, immoral life, nasty talk, extravagant and impulsive expenses.
3. Commands respect, bold, courageous, gains through relatives, good understanding with neighbours, success in agency, good for business, creative, victory over enemies, good health, reputation and honour. If afflicted, troubles, anxious, anonymous petitions, false reports, difficulties.
4. Realise ambition, purchase of property, land or gain through estate, inherits property. If afflicted, obstacles, troubles, difficulty in old age, blood pressure, undomestic environments and loss of property.
5. Gains through speculation, children, amusement, cinema etc. During child birth difficulty. May go on journey to forest region, intestinal disorders. If afflicted, loss, rivalry in courtship, difficulty through love affairs and trouble with children.
6. Not good for health, weakness, gain through service, promotion, chemistry, medicine, hospital, heart trouble, organic trouble, intelligent, bold, victory over enemies, big family, self-esteem.
7. Success after marriage, magnanimous, determined, permanent attachment, popular, litigation averted by arbitration, compromise, gains through partners in business, if afflicted loose morals, late marriage, henpecked, travels, both partners character questionable; beneficial aspect shows virtues, two wives, illness to partner, venereal disease, defective vision, displeasure from Officials.
8. Better luck after marriage, gains by partnership. End by self-sacrifice or any heroic action. Improves vitality, contributes long life. Few children, if afflicted weak constitution, defective vision, economical, violent end, in a female's chart the husband passes away first, loss of wealth, immoral connection, litigation and poverty.
9. Religious, connection with colleges or legal department, gains through travels, desire to carry out research, success in overseas, sincere, constant in religious beliefs, self-reliance, increase in popularity, does meritorious deeds, success in attempts, much self-acquired properties.
10. Increase in income, improvement in status, honour, and authority. Independent, decent inheritance, very steady improvement in business, profession, promotion, good vitality, possesses jewels, tactful, fond of music, arts, head of small society or village, success in political life.
11. Ambitious, fulfils one's desire, respectful, loyal, honest connection with people in power, hopeful, permanent friends, social success, good business, many conveyance, unfriendly with politicians, principled.
12. Success in medicine, chemistry, occult science. Association with hospital, prison, sanatorium etc., Prefers to lead a secluded life, self-sacrificing. If afflicted poverty, not straight forward, likes widows, unscrupulous, dispute with parents, danger to children, loss in foreign land.

### MOON
The results of planets in Rohini, Hastham, or Sravanam, governed by the Moon, change according to the Moon's occupation or ownership.

1. Weak constitution, dyspepsia, disease in micturition, defect in the ear, many brothers and sisters, worries, never steady, ever changeful, fertile imagination, gains in business, happy domestic life, good dreams. If afflicted, mental disease, danger from water and liquids.
2. Increase in income, larger profits, happy sexual life, versatile, handsome, intelligent, break in education, respected by all, sweet speech, gains through ladies, mother etc.
3. Popular, many sisters, good health (if afflicted, dyspepsia), good education, bold, mind ever engaged and alert, fond of journeys, changes, new surroundings, social life.
4. Gains through parents, happy domestic life, inherits, popular, change of residence, over indulgence, gains from wet land, possesses building, vehicle, etc. If afflicted, disappointment, difficulties, theft, fraud, estrangement, loss of parents, complications etc.
5. Fond of pleasure, enjoys life in the society of children, speculative mind, fond of music, opera, swimming pool, handsome wife, affects education, birth of many daughters, a good adviser, wise decision, changeable affection, unsteady.
6. Weak health, susceptibility for infectious disease, lazy, henpecked, suffers from dysentery, gas trouble, diarrhoea, loss of money, pressure from bank, misunderstanding with mother, loves widows, pilfering habits, changes service, treachery, loss through pet animals, poultry etc.
7. The partner will be fond of change and travel. Unsettled nature; engaged in public work; early marriage; fond of other ladies, two wives, narrow outlook, jealousy; short journey and honeymoon.
8. Danger to mother, disharmony with maternal people, ill health, lack of comforts, agony, loss through ladies, gains venereal disease. Profitable transaction; receives the goods of the debt, lean body, defective vision and short life.
9. Does meritorious deeds, success in attempts, becomes popular, intelligent, builds temples and charitable institutions, possesses lands, jewels, becomes wealthy, makes long voyages, lives in foreign land, romantic and fanciful mind, good dreams, psychic experiences.
10. Public life, changes business or profession, unstable, becomes popular, increases inheritances, makes voyages, charitable, loves widows, long life, respect for elders.
11. Many friends, mostly reliable, only a few permanent ones, gains through social life, politics, realises ambition, lucky children, wideawake, well informed, gains by agriculture, principled.
12. Fond of occult subject, romance, indiscrete love affairs, loss, gains through hospitals or isolated positions, makes voyages, ill-repute, loss of money, mean behaviour, defective organ.

If a planet, say Mars, is in Hastham, and the Lagna of the person is Scorpio and Moon occupies 11th house, Virgo, one has to consider as follows: Moon is lord of 9 and Moon is in 11, the latter being more predominant. So, the planet that is situated in Hastham (or Rohini or Sravanam) offers the matters signified by 11th House bhava more predominantly than the matters indicated by 9th house. These matters are fulfilled through Mars, lord of 1 and 6. The source of fulfillment or accomplishment is Mars, according to its nature, occupation and ownership. The result is given by Moon when Moon's period or Sub period runs.

### MARS
Mrigasira, Chithrai and "Hanishta are governed by Mars. Planets in these stars will offer such results as given below depending on the occupation or lordship of Mars:

1. Ambitious, aspiring, assertive, bold, rash, cruel, wicked, burn or scar in the head, pilfering habits, commands respect, danger to elders, wandering, both constructive and destructive.
2. Irritable, extravagant, increase in income, equal expenses, education affected, mixes with wicked people, danger to partner, gains through iron, steel, timber and chemicals, skill, promotion.
3. Very bold, danger to brother, wealth increases, success in enterprise, victory over enemies, adulterous, fond of dancing girls, danger during journey, if afflicted thoughts of suicide.
4. Loss of wealth, unhealthy to mother, chest pain, danger during journey, danger to parents, dispute in the family, brutal and indecent in the treatment of ladies, loss by theft, fire, litigation in property.
5. Surgical aid during delivery, good sportsman, muscular exercise, rash, attraction to the opposite sex, over indulgence, danger of injury to first child. Loss in speculation dispute with children. Government displeasure, criminal activities, scandal.
6. Rich, plenty of lands, political life, success, victory over enemies, unhealthy uncle, active, careless, inflammation, or injury, loss through animals and poultry.
7. Unhealthy wife, piles, many brothers, intelligent, dispute with ladies, evil friendship, long journey. If afflicted death of partner, impetuous in love, loss through litigation, competition in business.
8. Defective vision, short life, loves dancing girls, loses partner, danger to father, misery, unhappy, partner extravagant, loss by fire and theft.
9. Loss in agriculture, short tempered father, sickly, international trade, export, power and prestige-increases, danger of violence, dreams distressful, a fanatic, skeptic, does not pay respects to early religious teachings. enterprising, self-made.
10. Impulsive, intellectual, reasonable, independent, courageous, gains through business, promotion, salesman, industrial pursuit, head of a society, colony or town, makes money in agriculture, owns estate.
11. Gains through agriculture, income increases, promotion, prosperity, progress, popularity, well informed elder brothers, self made, possesses property, a few reliable friends.
12. Danger, injury, scandal, treacherous, visits jails, liability to imprisonment, cheat, loss of partner, sore eyes, difficulties.

### MERCURY
1. Good speech, learned, well informed, learns magic, astronomy, astrology, mathematics, engineering etc., studious habits, changeable, artist, adaptable, fertile imagination, journeys. Gains by teaching, writing or by commission. Advertising, stationery, books, press. Many children, acquires property, stores, grain, happy.
2. Frequent short journeys, broad outlook, fond of reading, teaching, anxious, mental development, many brothers, weak body, deception.
3. Good in education, robust health; pleasant mother, new friends, happy domestic life, but change of residence, no fixed abode, gains money through land, mine, estate, newspaper, library, registrar office, etc., intelligent mother, ever changes the car.
4. More of mental pleasure than of muscular one. Anyhow worry, anxiety and obstacles. A Minister or an adviser, intelligent children, success in attempts.
5. Petty quarrels, labour trouble, studies hygiene, chemistry, medicine, active mind, overworks, nervous breakdown; suicidal tendency, stomach trouble, dispute with maternal uncle; loss of money through litigation; education affected, disease in the tips of fingers.
6. Unsettled wedded life, partner more intelligent, shrewd, partner younger, may be employed, marriage by advertisement, litigation and legal dispute, if afflicted. Loss of vitality, showy, happy mother, many vehicles, adulterous.
7. Troubles, difficulties, dispute, litigation with partners, misunderstanding with neighbour; journey to attend funeral ceremony, nervous breakdown; paralysis; long life, few children, much wealth, popular, helps relatives.
8. Studious, higher education, success in long journeys; life in foreign place; indecisive; high position; respected by public; fortunate father; learns music.
9. Success in business; promotion; additional charge public life; novelist; teacher; reporter, electrician-railway, antiquities, research, promotion, possesses good house and vehicle, success in education.
10. Owns much property, increases wealth, prosperous, generous, charitable, respectful, many acquaintances, only a few permanent friends, associates with youngsters; good in mathematics and astrology.
11. Adulterous, danger to mother and uncle, poor number of children, lazy, poverty, fond of occultism, secret arts, unusual thoughts, petty quarrels, anxiety, scandal.

### Jupiter
Punarvasu, Visaka and Poorvapathrapadha are governed by Jupiter. If a planet is situated in any of the 3 stars one is to judge the results according to the house occupied by Jupiter and also owned by it.
1. Robust health, satisfactory financial position, providential help, birth of children, reputation, advancement in career, good education, grammar, politician, long life, stout body, optimistic, jovial, honest, true, banker, physician, judge lawyer, teacher, theologian, cashier, if afflicted suffers from cancer, impure blood, excessive stoutness, plephorea.
2. Successful career, increase in income, prosperous, good for business, gains influence, eloquent, liberal, charitable, gains through banking, religion, education, insurance etc.
3. Philosophical, sympathetic, courteous, many brothers, adopts all methods unscrupulously to gain one's object, addicted to evil, likes the company of the other sex, gains through 3rd house matters, advertising, publicity etc.
4. Happy domestic life, gains through parents, successful estates, possession of building, vehicle, cattle etc. Lucky mother, success in education, happy end.
5. Good children, gains through love affairs, pleasant life, fond of amusement, cinema, music etc., gains in speculation, wholesale merchant, social success, political career, wise counsel.
6. Maintains health, if indisposed well attended, all comforts given and gains during unhealthy period (One may ask how it is possible to gain when one is ill. A friend of mine admitted himself in a hospital during the period of the planet in the constellation of Jupiter, occupying the 6th house in his horoscope. During the time, he made friendship with a foreigner. On a later date the foreigner was responsible to arrange foreign collaboration for his business. Thus planets in the constellation of Jupiter when it is occupying the 6th house is good to the native.). Victory in election, adulterous, dyspeptic trouble.
7. Partner well behaved and true, magnanimous, increase in wealth, become very rich, reputation, success in agriculture, gains through partners, good business, wins in litigation.
8. Loss of property, secret activities, narrow outlook, fond of drinks, never afraid of misappropriation especially public money, pretends to be honest and generous, prosperity after marriage, gains by legacy, handle other's money freely.
9. Reputation, religious, lawful, correct intuition, clear thought, philanthropic, good for travel, logical, optimistic, luck to father, association with foreigners, a good adviser consultant, many children.
10. Noble birth, optimistic, influential, good business, political life, sportsman, timely promotion, good relationship with higher officials, social and financial success, does meritorious deeds, possesses lands, vehicle, head of a village, command many servants.
11. Good friends, well placed in life, gains through Jupiterians, social success, popularity, realises ambition, birth of children, learns music, masters it, possesses building, enjoys all comforts.
12. Gains through law, medicine, occult subjects, service in public institutions, visits hospitals and asylums. Connections with foreigners, danger to children, or limited number of children, enlargement of spleen, evil tendencies and scandal if afflicted. Wanders, becomes a sanyasi, pious, in the end of life Moksha.

### Venus
Barani, Poorvaphalguni and Poorvashada are the three stars governed by Venus. Planets occupying any of the three stars will give the following results corresponding to the house which Venus has occupied or owns:
1. Reliable, affectionate, emotional, social, fond of arts, pleasure, music, fortune, fruitful, successful, mathematician, poet. If afflicted, defect in ovaries, kidneys, cheeks affected, diabetes, accumulates wealth, purchases jewels, costly dress etc. and pleases the partner in sex affairs.
2. Fortune, favour from ladies, higher officials, artists, etc., social success, marriage pleasant, purchases jewels, runs hotels, fond of adornment, luxuries, increase in wealth, happy married life, charming wife, musician.
3. Brothers prosperous, liking for painting, cheerful, optimistic, relatives and neighbours are favourable, saves money, keeps health. If afflicted, unhappy, poor, economical, unpopular, dissatisfaction in married life.
4. Happy domestic life, prefers his own native place, easily gets inheritance, possesses property, fortune, glutton, beautiful mother, possesses cattles, plenty of milk and milky products, owns estates, cars, service in transport, educational institution.
5. Birth of beautiful children especially daughters, talented in music, gains through love affairs, speculation, investment, music, summer resorts etc., a good administrator and adviser, danger to mother.
6. Can maintain health, avoid excesses, no labour problem, gains in maternity, nursing and maintaining pet animals, poultry etc., skin disease, kidney or ovary troubles, diabetes, wins in election, victory over enemies, fond of ladies of all kinds.
7. Social and financial success, good partners, success in business, public relation satisfactory, very clever in adultery, fond of other women, over thinking of sexual pleasure, happy domestic life, pleasant journey, extravagant expenses.
8. Increase in income, ill-health to mother, successful business, wealth through partner, God-fearing, profit by legacy, insurance, fuel, forest, deals in wood, closet bathroom fittings.
9. Sympathetic, obliging, higher education, successful, good in music, arts, happy long journey, success in foreign land, may marry out of caste or a foreigner, reputation, good fortune, head of infantry, may fall in love with teacher's or prohit's daughter, high position, honour.
10. Pleasing manners, popular, success with other sex, permanent friends, never rubs on the wrong side, gain through elders, and through music, happy domestic life, harmonious wedded life, gain through jewellery, luxury, amusement, speculation, decoration, possesses house, conveyance, some breaks in education, few elder sisters, success in litigation.
11. Very rich, luxurious comforts, learned, possesses lands, gains in agriculture, uses good conveyance, pleasant friend, social success, prosperity after marriage.
12. Romantic life, investigates secret arts, gains through charitable and public institution, enjoys peaceful life in seclusion, happy and satisfactory sexual bliss, immoral tendencies in plenty, does not reject women though low born, pleasant promises and unworthy performance.


### SATURN
Pushyam, Anuradha, and Uttarapathrapada (Uttrattathi) are governed by Saturn. Saturn may occupy any house and own two of the 12 bhavas. Whatever Saturn indicates by its occupation of a particular bhava and the ownership of the two bhavas, will be offered by the planets, in any of the 3 stars.

1. Lazy, lethargic, abortive tendency, loss of children, unscrupulous, adulterous, obstacles, wandering, poor, loss of wife if afflicted, methodical, industrious, if ill-placed affection of the bone, teeth, right ear, knees, spleen, constipation, rheumatism, stone in gallbladder etc.
2. Maximum labour, minimum wages, uphill struggle, lack of money, success in estate, mine, investment, coal, lead refrigeration etc. More than one wife. Break of education, fond of drinking.
3. Increase in income, gains wealth, death of brother, victory over enemies, success in litigation, diplomatic, mental control, concentration very cautious, cares for truth.
4. Chronic disease to mother, loses ancestral property, voyage to distant places, misfortune in his own land, scandal, incomplete education, gains through oil seeds and black grains, enmity with politician, seclusion at the end of life. If well posited and if it receives good aspects from lords of 2, 7, 11 comes by treasure.
5. Abortive tendencies, still born child, may adopt, disappointment in love affairs, likes only old people, in a female chart it shows attraction to widowers, troubles through children, loss in speculation, cinema, criminal prosecution, wandering often, depressed, tale bearer.
6. Deaf, adamant, victory over enemies, court bird, increase in income, popular, greater authority, chronic disease, loss through animal and poultry, labour trouble.
7. Late marriage, sickly wife, fond of other's wives, pain in the ear, prudent and faithful wife, steady in affection, poverty, misery, loss by partnership, unsuited for business, always meets with opposition, failure in litigation, miserable in election, scandal.
8. Loss of wealth, criminal activities, disputes, untold misery, obstacles, disappointment, dejection, slow death, chronic disease, distressing dreams, death of father, danger of drowning, unwieldy sexual organ, adulterous, fond of drinks, leprosy, consumption, asthma, danger to brother, dishonest, black marketer, secret activities.
9. Philosophical minded, detached attachment, scientific, meditative, geology, mineralogy, occult subject, metaphysics, renovates temple, irreligious, misfortune, unpleasant domestic life.
10. Speedy promotion to a high level, sudden reversal and adversary, ambition for power and prestige. Industrious, yet financial loss in business ultimately (in few cases it is found that Saturn in 10 for cinema actors and actresses, had given a very good lift and income. But everything is lost and they lead a miserable life. So also great politicians, and powerful people had Saturn in 10, reached the highest position and fell down to a depth much greater than the height they climbed. It is similar, to a person climbing up a tree on the shore of the sea, walking along the branch and falling into the sea, the depth of which is much greater than the height that he climbed). Chances to visit holy places, enjoys life in foreign land, becomes the head of religious institutions and ultimately becomes a sanyasi as he does not own anything.
11. Select friends, mostly elders, hopes fulfilled, becomes rich, owns lands, political power, obstacles in education, danger to elder brother, enjoys conveyance, vehicle, commands authority, success in enterprises, promotion, influence, increase in income.
12. Life in a secluded place, danger of imprisonment, secret inimical activities, downfall, loss, accidents, injury, secret sorrows, disappointment in love affairs, dissatisfaction in sexual life, wasting money for nasty purposes, vision defective, ill-health to children, weak constitution, misery.


### RAHU AND KETHU
As regards Rahu and Kethu, they indicate the results of the planet with which they are conjoined. If no planet is in conjunction with them, they bestow the results of the planets aspecting them. If Rahu or Kethu is neither conjoined with, nor aspected by any planet, it offers the results of the lord of the constellation in which it is deposited, and lastly the results of the sign. So one is to include the results of Rahu or Kethu in a particular house along with those of the lords of the constellation.

If the lord of the constellation is a benefic, one can expect advantageous results. If the lord of the constellation or the planet conjoined with or aspecting be a malefic, only undesirable results will be experienced. Rahu or Kethu gives the results to a much greater extent than what the lord of the constellation can offer. Therefore, imagine as though the lord of the constellation is posited in that house in which Rahu or Kethu was tenanted. Also imagine that the lord of the constellation is posited in that bhava and it gives the results to a greater extent.

For example, if one is born in Kumba lagna, Rahu is posited in the 10th house in Anuradha constellation and there is no planet in conjunction with nor any planet aspecting it, then Rahu will produce the results of Saturn owning the 1st and 12th houses and the results of the matters signified by the house occupied by Saturn. When one has to give the results of Rahu, one has to imagine as though Rahu which is in Anuradha star will act as an agent of Saturn or as though Saturn itself is in Anuradha. But if Rahu were to be in Jyesta, then it has to represent Mercury. So, imagine as though Mercury is in Jyesta and include the matters signified by lord of 5 and 8, giving more importance to the matters indicated by that bhava occupied by Mercury. Thus one has to blend the results and judge properly before venturing a prediction.