

The role of a sub is to divide a sign into three major divisions. Each division is ruled by a different planet, and the results indicated by the sign are classified into three groups according to the constellations. For example, Taurus is ruled by Venus and all the results indicated by Venus coupled with an earthy, fixed and negative sign are attributed to Taurus. But in the same sign, there are three constellations called Karthik, Rohini and Mrigasira. Karthik is ruled by Sun, Rohini by Moon and Mrigasira by Mars. Therefore, the results indicated by Taurus are classified into three groups; a part of it is governed by Venus and Sun (Karthik Star; if a planet were to be between 0° and 10° of Taurus at the time of the birth or at the time of the query or when a planet transits between 0° and 10° of Taurus, its results are modified by Venus and Sun). The second part is under the influence of both Venus and Moon (Rohini Star 10° Taurus to 23° 20 Taurus). The results indicated by the planets in this area are under the influence of Venus and Moon. And the third part is governed by Venus and Mars; those matters signified by both of them are grouped together and the planets occupying 23° -20' to 30° Taurus will be influenced by Venus and Mars. The matters signified jointly by them will be offered by the planet occupying the star or transiting in this area.

Sub: As regards the sub, it is the nine divisions of each constellation in the proportion in which they are allotted total number of years in Vimshottari dasa. What results the lord of the sign and the lord of the constellation jointly indicate are again divided into nine groups. Therefore, the sign lord, the star lord, and the sub lord reduce the number of probabilities to be chosen for prediction. Such subdivision is found necessary not only to differentiate the results indicated by two planets, but also the cusps in the same constellation. 

For example, twins are born; one having its meridian in Venus sign Taurus in Moon Star-Rohini and in the sub of Saturn. This person deals in Petrol. But, the next born will have his Meridian in Venus sign Taurus in Moon star-rohini and in the sub of Mercury. This brother deals in Cotton and Silk products. 

Let us take another example. One of the twins born with Meridian in 21° Leo is an educationist and an advocate. Because the Meridian has fallen in Leo ruled by Sun in Poorvapalguni Star governed by Venus and in the sub of Jupiter who indicates Law and Education. But the other twin whose Meridian was in 27° is a Medical gentleman because this point in the zodiac in Leo is owned by Sun, in Uttrapalguni Star governed by Sun and also in the sub of Sun. Thus twins born at an interval of a few minutes having the lagna in the same sign at different degrees, the position of the planets in the same degree, experience different results. While joining the College, one gets admission in the Law college whereas the other studies in Medical College and later their profession also is entirely different. 

Third example: Twins were born, one in 7° 41' in Moon sign cancer, Saturn Star Pushya and in the sub of Kethu, the other twin was born in 12°-20' in Moon sign Cancer, Saturn Star Pushya and in the sub of Mars. The earlier born in Kethu sub died immediately after birth whereas the 2nd born lived long. No doubt, the second born had a fragile constitution in youth and later he picked up. 

Therefore, even though a constellation may indicate many results, it is the sub which decides which of them applies to an individual. A constellation extends to 13°-20' whereas a sub extends between 0°-40' to 2° 13'-20". Therefore, the broad prediction indicated by a constellation is specifically defined by the sub. 

A person may have his Meridian in 23°. If we take only the sign for the prediction for their processing we consider the sign Aries and its Lord Mars, the navamsa lord, etc. But if we include the constellation, then we take into our judgement both the planets Mars and the Lord of the Constellation Venus who rules between 13°-20' and 26°-10' Aries. But if one uses this sub, then one finds, that a person ties his Meridian in Mars sign, Venus Star and Jupiter sub whereas the other person has meridian in Mars sign, Venus Star, Saturn sub. Both are Sanitary Inspectors. One works in Animal Husbandry Department who has his meridian in Mars sign, Venus Star, Jupiter Sub, as Jupiter is the chief governor for production and progeny whereas the other is working in the slaughter house where animals are killed, as Saturn the sub-lord is the Karaka for "Death". So, a person causes production of animals whereas the other causes destruction of them. Hence health, disease, longevity, education, profession etc., can be clearly and correctly predicted only when the sub is included.

If it is not taken into consideration, an astrologer is to predict that a person may deal with quadrupeds. He cannot say as to whom of the two is in animal husbandry and who in the slaughter house. A third person having his Meridian in 5°-50' of Aries thus having it in Mars sign, Venus Star, Sun sub works as Veterinary Surgeon. To clearly indicate the profession, one can find that the sub serves useful purpose and gives correct and clear prediction. This alone is needed.

Suppose planets A, B, C and D are in Sagittarius (Dhanus) between 26°-40' to 30°. Dhanus is ruled by Jupiter. Longitude 26°-40' to 30° is governed by Sun. The star is Uthrashada. Both rasi and Navamsa are Dhanus. The modification to the planet A, B, C and D is the same according to our ancient science. But according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati Planet 'A' which is between 26°-40' and 27°-20' gains strength or gets weakened according to the sign. Dhanus ruled by Jupiter, the planet ‘A’ instead of giving results according to its nature and lordship, offers the results indicated by the lord of the constellation Sun. The lord of the constellation may indicate many matters. But the lord of the sub, eliminates many of them and specifies a particular matter. 

Planet 'B' in between 27°-20' and 28°-26'-40" is in Jupiter's sign, Sun's star Uthrashada and sub of Moon. Planet 'C' in between 28°-26'-40" and 29°-13'-20"is under the sway of Jupiter-lord of the Sign, Sun, lord of the star and Mars lord of the sub. Planet 'D' in between 29°-13'-20" and the end of the sign is in Rahu sub, the sign lord and star being Jupiter and Sun respectively. 

Therefore one can note that hundreds of professions are indicated by the sign-Sagittarius-Dhanus. But if we take constellations, each represents a few dozens of them. Sub exactly fixes the profession. Therefore, he who has the planets, A, B, C and D and if he runs 'A' dasa, he will then be magnanimous, reliable, honest, serve in Education Department or bank or be a physician. But when he runs the period of the planet 'B' may be a politician or benefited by a politician then, if it is a benefit. When he runs the period of the planet 'C' he may be a civilian in Military, Defence Department, or an orator or a mayor or a minister. Planet 'D' may authorize him as one of the visitors of jails. 

Thus the planet within these 3°-20' has to indicate many varieties. When the sub is applied, one can eliminate most of them and pinpoint on very few items which alone is helpful to the querist. If one gives a list of appointments assigned to a sign just like the server presents a large number of items in a 'Menu' card in a hotel, what a task it is to make further selection. Specific ones are needed in those days, just like one wants to know the special dish of the day.

Suppose there is a planet in a sign. Then, the planet is the source of light. It indicates the source of a result - which a native enjoys by its nature, ownership, etc. If the planet is significator of 1, he gains by his own efforts and influence. If it is significator of 3, through brother or publication, he gains or loses, depending on the sub. If it is significator of 4, through mother or the matters signified by the house, he has that result. If it is significator of 5, through speculation, music, or children he enjoys the result. Thus, the planet who transits or the planet whose period is running, shows how one gets the result, how a result is brought about, etc.

The sign indicates the extent to which one can enjoy, as it shows whether the planet is strong or weak in that sign. The lord of the constellation is that which shows the nature of the result, i.e. in which house the lord of the constellation is deposited and the house or houses it owns. Then, the matters signified by those houses will manifest. Suppose the lord of the constellation owns the houses 3 and 10, i.e. Mars to Aquarius-burns or Venus to Leo-horns and they are occupying 3rd house from Aquarius or Leo respectively, then the planet in Mars constellation to Aquarius-bores or that in Venus constellation for Leo-barns shows that one corresponds, interviews, or makes a short journey for a job. Then, the favourable or unfavourable sub denotes whether he is successful or not. When? It will be during the conjoined period of the planet, star lord, and sub-lord.
Suppose a planet transits in a sign, e.g. take Jupiter. According to the principles available, one cannot definitely state when one can have its beneficial results and also what result one can expect at a particular time. But by studying this book one can give correct predictions. 

Suppose in a small post office, one posts, say, 44 letters. All the 44 are put in one bag, so the contents indicate 44 places. If these are distributed into 3 bags, one may contain 19, the other 19 and the third 6. If there are 22 bags each for different places, these 44 will be distributed to the 22 bags on an average at two per bag. If one bag is missing, it is easy for one to mention from the missing bag to which places the letters belong. If all are thrown in one bag, one can say that two of the 44 are missing and it is not possible to specify. But if it is distributed in 22 bags (22 subs in one sign) it is easy to pitch up. 

Further, a planet in the sub of an evil planet indicates loss, difficulty or failure whereas the same planet, in the same star, but in the sub of a benefic, promises success, gain and pleasure. The lord of the constellation may indicate the matters of the 7th house. The planet in the sub of a malefic causes enmity whereas that in the sub of a benefic brings in harmony and happiness. 

Also, the planet in the sub of an evil one threatens loss in litigation whereas that in the sub of a benefic indicates victory even though the constellation lord denotes litigation. If a planet indicates business, the stars governed by this planet show business and the planet in beneficial sub promises profit whereas that in the sub of an evil one threatens loss. The lord of the constellation may show any one walk of life to the native. It is the sub which decides whether that area is advantageous or not and thereby indicates whether the planet occupying or transiting therein will offer desirable results or adverse ones.