## Karma is the cause of inequality in life. 
The only thing that is distributed fairly in every land is worry. Rich or poor, man or woman, every individual has their allotted quota of worry. Everyone wants peace of mind, but nobody gets it. Let us consider a few types of curses or ill-fate and how each one is worried.
A rich landlord secures tons of rice at every harvest, but is unable to take a bowl of cooked rice as he suffers from diabetes. He curses his fate. He who runs a group of high-class hotels caters delicious food of all varieties to his customers, but he cannot consume even a bit of it himself since he suffers from blood pressure or colic pains.
An emaciated and thin-looking person with an income barely sufficient for the maintenance of two adults is blessed with enough children to form a cricket team of his own, while a very well-to-do neighbour in the best of health has none and the latter is depressed and does not know when they can have one.
A supremely intelligent person, who had been scoring top marks in school, is forced by circumstances to serve in later life under one who is extremely dull-witted and is looked upon as a symbol of backwardness. The intelligent person earns a meagre income and carries out the orders of the dull-witted. They worry when they can have bright days.
A young girl with no grace or charm gets married, but her neighbour who is very beautiful and rich with all the required qualifications for marriage, continues to be on the waiting list, forlorn and unhappy, in spite of serious attempts by relatives and friends. They would be in peace if they were informed by the astrologer of her destiny and when they can fulfill their desire.
Thus, it is observed that every person has their share of trials and tribulations in life. If there is one science that lifts the load off one's mind and enables them to face the future with confidence and hope, it is astrology. The science of astrology alone explains why everyone has some worry or other and also why there is so much inequality in life and offers mental solace. The fundamental basis of astrology is Karma and Re-incarnation.
The whole world is a huge theatre. The cinema of life goes on forever. Every individual is an actor. The past, the present, and the future are already fixed in the roll of the films. The future will be shown in the same order without any alteration, and we enjoy or suffer as time passes on without any modification. The roll of film already taken is according to the Karma done by us in the previous birth and the story is the result in this birth and it cannot be changed.
Karma is a Sanskrit word, "Kri" meaning ‘action’ or 'deed'. Any mental or physical action is called Karma; every action produces its reaction or result which is known as Karma. Thus, Karma includes both the action and the result governed by the irresistible law of 'Causation’.
So, under the law of Karma, there is nothing as chance or an accident. The so-called chances and accidents are really the products of some definite causes which we may not be aware of beforehand. That which appears to be accidental or providential to a non-astrological mind is a natural and inevitable incident to an astrologer. Hence, chances, luck or misfortune are governed absolutely by the law of Causation or Karma. God is neither partial nor unjust, and everything happens according to one's action in the previous birth. Man is completely a puppet in the hands of certain higher agencies. Karma and re-incarnation are like a seed growing into a tree which bears fruits yielding seeds which in turn produce more trees. The seed is the Karma. The growth of the tree is the life.
As is the seed, so will be the plant that springs out of it. If one sows paddy, one cannot get wheat. When one sows orange one cannot get apple. Everyone creates their own destiny. One should realise that, it is because of their own Karma, they suffer. The doctrine of Karma alone explains and reconciles people to the terrible and apparent injustice of life. The knowledge prevents them from cursing life or fellow beings or God. 
Only the divine of Karma can explain why people suffer, although they might not have done anything wrong in this life, and they may explain that the stars are bad and that they do not deserve any kind of trouble. Most of us believe that the planets do not cause luck or ill luck. They only indicate the trend of events in our life. The cause is our Karma. It fructifies by the will of God. Without our previous Karma, God who loves us all, who is just and impartial, will not give different results to the people who are His children, or cause troubles to them. You can compare God to rain water which is pure. Rain water enables the seeds to sprout and grow. But some alone thrive, and some die out. This is due to the inherent potency of the seeds. 
Astrology explains what Karma one should have done in the previous birth and what they should experience in this birth and when.
A surveyor can say that the rain in Mercara will take the course of the river Cauvery and that in Rishikesh will take the course of the Ganges. These courses are earmarked. So also, astrology can offer predictions and also classify those who will try to mitigate the afflictions or augment one's luck and who will not make any attempt at all. Every event will take them by surprise.
