## Fate is inevitable.
Destiny is thus the inevitable and unavoidable occurrence of events in one's life which is not all under the control of the person but is directed by the Almighty according to His Original Judgment passed on the consideration of the Karma done by the person in the previous birth which is known only to His Almighty. It can be predicted by a wise astrologer. The belief that one can modify or nullify the results of Destiny by exercising his will is not correct.

Natal astrology as propounded by the ancient sages is a convincing science, having its foundations of Karma theory; it should be possible for the astrologer who interprets it, to read out from the chart, the circumstances under which one is placed, his normal expectations, whether one will make attempts to hoodwink destiny and ultimately the nature of the result and the time of event. It is only when the knowledge of astrology gained by one is limited and the interpreter is not fully aware of Karma theory, he gives, importance to self-will and offers advice; he later understands that the native followed his suggestions and ultimately he enjoyed desirable results. He attributes all these to self-will. But he does not realise that what he predicted was incomplete. He has not properly under-stood the present, the circumstances under which one will be placed, what attempts one will make to alter it by exercising one's will and the ultimate result. Actually everything is found in the horoscope. Attributing to self-well is no thing but attachment of importance to one's will and one's own self. Astrology clearly shows that man is postulated as the subject of a certain destiny and human endeavour as the fulfilling of fate. It may be said, more as a compromise, that man is both a slave of the effects of his past deeds and is a free agent as regards his deeds which are in no way directed to thwart, arrest, alter or in any way modify or remould the effects of his past Karma. The past, the present and the future are all recorded as explained previously in the cine film. The stars and the planets in their course denote our destinies, not only those fulfilled in the past but also those lying stored up for us in the future.

Able astrologers who have specialized in any branch of the science can boldly declare an event without doubt and can go to the extent of taking a challenge that a particular result must happen, mentioning also the time of the event. The following few remarkable examples will convince the readers. 

King Vikramathithya had many astrologers in his court. Of them, Mihira was an intellectual giant and the most renowned. He was admired and held in great reverence, not only by Vikramathithya but also by his colleagues and the general public. The King had a son. Mihira cast the horoscope of the Prince. Other astrologers also prepared the boy's horoscope using different systems of calculation-Nirayana, Drik Ganitha, etc. Kalidas and Vararuchi were in favour of the author of Panchasiddantika and hence followed Siddhanta or Nirayana. 

Whichever system others followed, all of them gave their opinion that the Prince would have an anxious time at the age of 18. On the nature of the danger and the cause of death of the Prince, they were not unanimous. Others were of the opinion that his Prince might lose his life due to the injuries inflicted by an animal while hunting. But the most learned and wise Varahamihira who enjoyed the blessing of Lord Adhitya, and had Divya Drishti and Vaksiddhi predicted clearly and boldly that the prince would be killed by a Varaha, i.e, a boar at a particular hour on a particular date. He also said that no human remedies could avert the danger and save him from the jaws of death and that this unpleasant incident could not be altered. He said "AVASYAM ANUBOKTHAVYAM KRITHAM KARMA SUBHASUBHAM", that the Prince could not survive even if all the precautions were taken. 

Years passed. The Prince was maintaining robust health. His surroundings were well guarded even some months prior to the eventful day. On the morning of the fateful day, the King held a Durbar. A huge crowd was anxiously awaiting. The king requested Varahmihira to verify his calculations and confirm whether the fateful hour would be the same 5-00 p.m. on that day as predicted previously. All had their own doubts, because very precaution was taken by the King. No wild boar or wild animal could have any chance of gaining access to the Prince's palace which was very well protected by a huge army of vigilant warriors. 

The Prince was asked to take his seat in the seventh floor, and all the staircases were fully guarded. The King was confident that his son was safe. So he asked Varahamihira how could his son die from injuries, inflicted by a boar, when none would be allowed into the palace and especially when no animal could enter at all. He again requested him to reconsider deeply about his original prediction. The King also declared that he would award the Emblem of the Royal Title 'Varaha' to Mihira, if the prediction would prove to be true because the King wanted to honour this science. 

Some minutes passed. Absolute silence prevailed. The whole crowd was eagerly observing Mihira to hear his verdict. Varahamihira said that he was devoted to Sun God and he is blessed with Vak Siddhi. No mistakes could be committed. Death from the injuries inflicted by a boar was predicted from the Prince's horoscope without any shadow of doubt. That was the penalty announced by the planets in the chart according to Karma done by the Prince in his previous birth. He repeated that the results of the past cruel Karma speak out through the planetary position of the time of birth. Therefore one should be prepared for the worst in spite of all possible efforts made to hoodwink Destiny. 

People, who gathered there, were confident that nothing could happen in such strictly guarded palace. At frequent intervals a warrior was asked to give information about the Prince's health. Reports that he was hale and healthy were received all right regularly. At 5 p.m. one warrior reported that the Prince was all right and the place was peaceful. Sometime later another soldier brought the same news. But Varahamihira did not agree. He calmly said to the King that the Prince had died at the stipulated time and it would be advisable if they would verify. The King kept quiet. Another soldier, after some time, came to the assembly and told that the place was calm and there was no disturbance at all. 

The King began to doubt the prediction, and again said to Mihira whether there could be any mistake in his calculation. Mihira reiterated that he was dead at the moment he predicted. He further mentioned boldly that the Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood; probably the watchman and the companions might not have noticed it. He suggested and persuaded the King to go and see for himself. The King with some important officers went up the stairs, one after another. The King reached the 7th floor. The companions of the Prince were deeply absorbed in playing games and did not notice the arrival of the King. One enquiry the King understood that the Prince had been playing with them all along and that only a little while ago, he had gone out to the adjacent open terrace. 

All quickly stepped into the open terrace. Oh God! What a horror! To their great grief, the Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood. They found that his body was injured by the front claw of an artificial boar. Thus God's will, according to the Karma of the Prince, fructified, as indicated by the planets, without being averted by the efforts of the King and his subjects. Therefore all events in our life are actually beyond our control and we have to submit ourselves quietly and suffer the consequences of our previous Karma. 

When the place was constructed, the architect erected a flagstaff and fixed an artificial boar made of iron and mortar at the top of the palace eyes_as all the towers in his kingdom had this Royal Emblem. To none, it struck that this artificial boar might be the cause of the death. The Prince just before 5.00 p.m. felt uneasy. He went to the open terrace to have fresh air. Exactly at 5.00 p.m. a strong wind broke the post into two and the Boar fell down. It fell straight on the chest of the Prince. The injury was so deep that the terrible loss of blood resulted in his immediate collapse.

The prediction of the Soothsayer given to Julius Caesar warning him that on the 15th of March there was danger to his life, as the Ides of March were there, proved to be correct. Julius Caesar could have avoided it by staying at home. However, this evil incident, which was to happen, induced Brutus to persuade Caesar and take him to the Senate. God gave Caesar one more chance to pay respect to the prediction. On the way, Caesar again met the Soothsayer who had previously predicted the danger. Caesar said to him, "The Ides of March are come," i.e., the 15th of March had arrived and the prediction had not come true. The Soothsayer calmly and with confidence replied, "Ay, Caesar, but not gone," i.e., the 15th of March was not yet over. In a few hours, Caesar was killed by Brutus and his end could not be prevented by anyone's will or action; the stars gave a correct indication to non-believers.

Ptolemy said, "Whosoever may be adopted to any particular event or pursuit will assuredly have the star indicative thereof very potent in his nativity."
The Emperor Pareekshit went to the forest and, after hunting, was feeling very tired and thirsty. He entered the ashram of Angira's Rishi, but was not immediately honored and attended to. He lost his temper and placed the dead skin of a snake around the Rishi's neck before returning home. This was later discovered by the Rishi's son, who cursed - or rather predicted - that the person who committed this folly would die on the seventh day by snake bite. The King heard of this curse and tried to avoid it, but despite his prayers to Lord Krishna, spending all the hours of the day listening to the Bhagavatam, shifting his place of residence, and taking all care, he could not outlive the time predicted. Taksaka, the King of the Snakes, bit him and thus ended the life of the Emperor Pareekshit, as told by the son of the sage.
This example is given to show that, even after knowing the nature and time of the event, however mighty one may be, they cannot alter it. As Dryden said, "Whatever betides, by Destiny it is done: And better bear like men than vainly seek to shun." One may try to commit suicide, yet they will survive if this end is not indicated by their birth chart.
One person was very unfortunate and married an arrogant, adamant, and atrocious wife who was always argumentative, aggressive, and avaricious. He found it impossible to get on with her and decided to commit suicide. He went to the sea to end his life, but was a good swimmer and thought that the waves might carry him to the shore or he himself could swim and save his life. He walked along the beach and found a big tree very near the sea in an unfrequented place. He took a long rope, climbed up the tree, and tied the rope to the branch that was overhanging the sea. While making a loop at the other end, he thought that he would suffer much when the rope would throttle his neck, so he returned home, took some intoxicating drug to deaden the pain. Again, a doubt arose whether he would die or survive, so he became bold, took a revolver, loaded it, and walked straight to the tree. He adjusted the rope, put on the loop, gave a kick to the branch of the tree, and straight down he fell. While falling, he fired, but because of the jerk he missed the aim and the bullet severed the rope instead of hitting his forehead. He plunged into the sea and went so deep that he swallowed a few mouthfuls of the brackish sea water, which brought out the intoxicating poison. He swam and the sea carried him to the shore, and he became wiser than before. Look! He tried to hang himself, get drowned in the sea, poison himself to die, and also used his revolver, yet he escaped from all these methods of committing suicide. Why? Because he had to live in this world until his end came according to Prarabdha, i.e., Destiny.

There is a catalogue of recent instances that I have accurately predicted. A few of them are given here: (a) luck; (b) longevity; (c) accident; (d) marriage; (e) incapability to go against destiny. I predicted that a high official would gain a lump sum for a very small stake in races on 8-5-1955. The native never used to go to the races, but he was persuaded by his friend who had no knowledge about this prediction and was taken by him. The officer was witnessing and enjoying the races all the time. He who took him, without informing the officer, purchased a few sweep tickets and gave one to the officer who reluctantly accepted it and paid its value Rs. 2/-. The event was over and the officer got the first prize of Rs. 4,200/-.

A well-known physician of Madras was ill and the medical experts who attended on him on 6-2-58 gave up hope. His sons, in their anxiety, consulted me. I gave in writing that upon 26-6-58 their father would have indifferent health; in May 1958 his health would be normal and there would be a happy celebration in the family; only on 26-6-58 he would pass away. Every one of these predictions came out true.

To a doctor in Saidapet, it was predicted in 1950 that on 19-12-1953 he would meet with an accident and that he would not escape it. On the 19th, he did not go to his consulting hall. He avoided driving his car and sat comfortably in his easy chair at home, absorbed in reading a medical magazine. Meanwhile, his daughter crawled and went under a cow, in between her four legs. The doctor, by chance, noticed it, got alarmed and suddenly got up. The floor slipped and he fell down, breaking his left arm. There was the fracture on 19-12-1953.

A high official wanted to celebrate the marriage of his son with a bride in Madras, though many brides parties had approached him. I selected the chart of a bride in Bangalore and said, "This Bangalore bride will be your daughter-in-law and not the one in Madras, though you have decided to have the Madras bride". He emphatically said "No, No, No! I am sure, your prediction will fail. Tomorrow the people from Madras are coming to my house for betrothal." I replied, "Dear sir, an ordinary layman's word may fail, but this is an astrological finding. It cannot go in vain. It is certain that, even if Thirunethran were to bless you all, you cannot have the Madras bride as your daughter-in-law." The next day dawned and, as already predicted, his son got married in that particular week to the beautiful Bangalore bride.

Here is an instance where a rich, strong-willed businessman miserably failed to maintain his word. On 10th July, 1958 I was consulted by a businessman in Madras in regard to his illness. It was classified as a complicated disease by the medical experts after a careful clinical examination. It was predicted that he would be in bed till 20th of the month, i.e. for another 10 days, though his temperature would come down to normal on 16th and that he could attend to his business on and from 28th. Actually his temperature came to normal on 16th and he was picking up health. On the 27th, he invited me and said, "The prediction as regards my ailment has come true. In spite of expert treatment, the high temperature has persisted. It was in the hands of Karma. So I had to suffer. I suffered. But mind you! I have decided on not going to my office today and attending to my business. Going or not going to office is entirely in my hands. You say that everything is destiny, I can shape my destiny here, by exercising my will." The eventful day came and, at 2.00 p.m., there was an urgent call to the businessman asking him to come to office at once. He had to go and he did go to his office at 3.00 p.m. that day. He could not avoid going as the matter was beneficial and also serious. Immediately he phoned to me and said, "Hats off! Astrology has won: I am now phoning from my office." That, even in such minor affairs, one cannot exercise his will and change the destiny, it proved beyond doubt.

I was giving a lecture in Bharateeya Vidya Bhavan, Delhi, at 6 p.m. on a Thursday in September 1962. One gentleman came to me and interrupted in the middle, saying, "Sir, a week ago I lost a purse containing Rs. 827 in the Bazaar street. I consulted a few; all were of opinion that it was lost once for all. May I know whether I can get it back or is it a total loss to me?" I asked for a number, explained it to the students and said, "Sir, you will be getting it intact next Wednesday. It has been picked up by a banker or an advocate or a professor." The next Wednesday, the gentleman got back his purse as predicted, bought sweets and distributed the same to the students. He said, "Sir, your prediction is wonderful. A professor had found it and handed it over to me intact only today, Wednesday." As I am not writing to folio, I shall content myself with the above examples where I have made it clear that destiny is unalterable and astrological predictions correctly presaged must come true.

Astrology is the science that explains the laws of nature. It is entirely based on the theory of karma and reincarnation. At the same time, it supports Newton's third law of motion, which states that every action has an equal reaction. This proves that no action will go to waste and nothing can happen without a cause, which is why astrology is considered to be a convincing science. Accurate results predicted by an able astrologer will surely come to pass. Whether one does Shanti or not, it cannot offer complete protection from evils. It does not guarantee success in all cases.
Those who believe in Shanti may ask, "If one can't modify or nullify the evil by doing Shanti, why have the sages prescribed various Shanties to ward off evil? If every action has to produce a reaction or cause an effect, then how can Shanti performed go in vain without removing the evil? Hindus perform Pujas and Homas, pray to Gods and Planets, construct choultries and hospitals, feed the poor and the disabled, do charity and assist the needy, etc. Cannot these virtuous deeds mitigate the affliction? In other countries, though they do not perform homa, etc., they still do charity or help fellow beings and animals without having faith or expecting any beneficial result in overcoming difficulties. Even then, whether they have faith or not, whether they do it with a set purpose or not, should not such casual or continuous meritorious action help such persons to get rid of evil?"

Astrology says that destiny cannot be altered. What is meant by destiny is not generally properly understood by non-astrologers. Karma is that which is already done in the previous birth. Destiny includes all actions done in that birth and the results which one is to enjoy. One's destiny may force him to do Shanti and give complete protection by removing the anticipated evil or only to an insignificant extent, or it may prevent one from performing any Shanti at all. Destiny ultimately gives the result, which one has surely to experience, without any alteration. People have to submit to fate, otherwise termed destiny.