## BRANCHES OF ASTROLOGY
The Various Branches of Astrology
(a) Medical Astrology or Astro-Pathology;
(b) Astro-Meteorology;
(c) Mundane Astrology or Judicial Astrology;
(d) Natal Astrology;
(e) Horary Astrology;
(f) Electional Astrology;
(g) Kabbalah Astrology;
(h) Kerala Astrology;
(i) Omens and Prognostications.

Medical Astrology
Health is wealth. Money can make many things possible when one desires and acts; however, God can offer everything whether one wants it or not, according to one's Karma done in the previous birth. God may bless one with money, but at the same time the native may have to suffer any one of the incurable, chronic, and loathsome diseases according to their destiny. Hence, the greatest problem which is to be faced by human beings is the maintenance of good health. To have immunity and resistance against infections and diseases, and a certain cure for the disease from which one suffers, one consults a medical expert. Astrologers opine that a physician can safely administer medicine if they are acquainted with astrology. This means that, in the absence of astrological knowledge to start with, the doctor has often to proceed only by trial and error methods and apply remedies by rule of thumb until they have eliminated many diseases, by varied examinations and ascertained the precise nature and cause of the disease. But if they were to know astrology, they can locate the part of the body affected, detect the disease, and select the opportune time for treatment. This will bring good name, fame, and satisfactory remuneration to the doctor and also restore the patient to normal health; otherwise, the patient will have to become a guinea-pig for experimental tortures. This will result in loss of time and often in loss of life; it will end in loss to the nation also. But if a doctor knows astrology and medicine sufficiently well, they will prove to be a really successful practitioner. Hippocrates, renowned as the "Father of Medicine", has stated "A physician cannot safely administer medicine if they are not acquainted with astrology". Medical astrology is concerned with the diagnosis of diseases, the methods of healing, the time of the onset of the ailment, the duration of the disease, and the psychiatric aspects that may influence the progress and prognosis of the diseases.

Fortunately for the public in America, there are many physicians and surgeons who have learnt astrology and make use of this knowledge with pleasant, successful, and gratifying results. There are astrological schools in the US and Europe with medical astrology as one of the subjects. They consider this as a very important branch of astrology which needs the combination of an astrologer and a physician who will enjoy success in their life. They can choose an auspicious time to begin treatment, to mix, dispense, and administer medicine, to do operations, to discharge from the nursing home, etc. After they have thoroughly studied astrology, they will feel very happy when they are capable of differentiating the pulmonary affection of a patient. They can say whether one suffers from cold and cough or dry cough or from Eosinophilia or Asthma or TB or Pleurisy or Bronchitis or Pneumonia, etc. It is easy to predict whether one suffers from mumps, or measles, or chicken pox or smallpox. It is not difficult to say whether one has only menstrual trouble or must have the uterus removed or the suffering is due to fibroid tumour or cancer. Such a good knowledge of astrology would be a great asset to them. Further, by finding out when and where an epidemic may range, the Institutes of Preventive Medicine can manufacture prophylactic vaccines and the Public Health Department can educate the public and carry on mass inoculation; exercise extra care on proper sterilisation and supply of wholesome water; do away with wells not in use and also take other precautionary measures if it is a water-borne disease. 

There need not be so much rush to hospitals; beds will be available without difficulty. There will be no necessity to extend the hospitals and increase the beds also to experience the dearth of doctors and nurses. A wise astrologer, in their own way, may consider that they are superior in intellect to a medical person in quickly diagnosing the nature of the disease, the duration of ill-health, and the final result. If one is found in the street unconscious, a medical attendant is to smell the mouth, to know whether the patient is drunk, to feel the belly to ascertain whether it is food poisoning, or to record their temperature to find out whether it would be a sun-stroke, or guess whether it could be due to exhaustion after much exertion, or guess whether it is due to hysteria, epilepsy, etc. They guess to start with, and try to do good to the patient by administering a medicine. But an astrologer remaining in a place, many miles away, even without seeing the patient, by phone, can mention the cause of their unconsciousness which will be found surprisingly true and later confirmed by the doctor attending on them.

Astrology is a wonderful science that, when practiced properly, can bring good health, reduce medical bills, increase longevity, and minimize mortality. When such benefits can be enjoyed by people, the world will produce wise astrologers. One may ask, "How can one avoid disease if they are destined to suffer?" I do agree, but when medical astrology is introduced in medical colleges and all become wise astrologers and physicians, the sufferings will naturally be reduced. This day will surely come, and it is coming.

The new era is fast approaching - the dawn of the Aquarian age. Aquarius is ruled by Uranus, which produces supremely intelligent and wise astrologers with intuition and introspection to offer amazing predictions. Aquarius is the best sign for grand success in research, especially in the useful branches of science, as it produces good reasoners, both theoretical and practical, with radical and advanced ideas and a good mentality.

The vernal equinox is now at 6° 44' of Nirayana Pisces (Meena). So it is in Uthra Pathrapada star. Hence, Jupiter's beneficial aspects are waning, while the aspects of Saturn and Mercury are becoming more and more prominent.

In India, early marriage was in vogue until 1930, and thereafter it has been declared a crime, as the age limit of the couple for marriage has been raised by legislation. It is plain to a non-astrologer that the government is responsible for this. But ask an astrologer, "Is it because of the government's initiative that the age limit is raised?" "No," will be their emphatic reply. They will add that, as time passes, according to the fate of the subjects in a nation, as indicated by the age of the world, the mind of the authorities will get so changed that they would decide and act in a manner indicated by planets, which can be read with a knowledge of astrology. They may attribute this as though they have done it, without realizing that it is the unknown force (due to the effect of the fate of the future subjects) that made them do so. With the knowledge of astrology, much of the unknown will become known, the mysterious will become plain, and correct light will be shed.

Aquarius (Kumbha) is governed by Saturn, and Pisces (Meena) is ruled by Jupiter (Guru). It is a common question put by parents to astrologers, "When do you find Guru Belem (i.e., beneficial effects of Jupiter) to my daughter or boy to celebrate marriage?" By that, one can understand that we believe in the beneficial (Jupiter) Guru's strength to have the marriage arranged by parents and celebrated in youth or at least immediately after one attains the age of maturity. As the Sayana Aries (Mesha) 0° in the 20th century coincides with the commencement of the second pada or quarter of Uthrapathrapada or Uthrattadhi Nakshathra (Star) ruled by Sani and the sub by Sukra (Venus), the age limit has to be raised. Further, malefic Sani (called a tempter) shows delay, crosses, disharmony, disappointment, and divorce, as well as secret pleasant activities by a few, or an increase in the number of inter-caste marriages by throwing away the tradition, are all due to this astrological fact based on the astronomical phenomena.

It is evident that Venus (Sukra) has improved all domains, and Jupiter is losing strength. Venus is the chief governor for music. In olden days, to bear one good musician was once in a blue moon, a rare occurrence, whereas now we have television, transistors, radio, gramophone, tape recorders, cinema, drama, and more. Many music colleges have been opened, which have produced a large number of good musicians night and day in every nook and corner of the world; even when we sail or travel, we hear music relayed from all over the world in various languages.

Venus is the Karaka for Vahana and transport. Let us consider how many kinds of conveyances our forefathers had. Are we not enjoying the benefits of cycles, motor cycles, scooters, cars, lorries, steamers, aeroplanes, helicopters, etc., thereby covering long distances in a very short time?

Venus is the chief ruler of ladies. Was there any association or club for them in ancient days? Was it not rare to see ladies in colleges, lady doctors in hospitals, and lady officials in offices? We have heard of Queens alone. Now, how advanced ladies are, having co-education and working alongside men in offices!

Thus, it will be seen that all changes that we observe are in accordance with the Great Age of the Earth. Therefore, it is certain that at the time when actually the Aquarian age runs, i.e., in about 475 years, astrology will regain popularity and this knowledge will be used to the utmost advantage of the people. It is not unlikely that the people attribute the advantages to astrology. But, actually, the Aquarian age will reduce the number of patients and produce many wise astrologers and physicians with correct intuition. As Aquarius opposes Leo, most of the deaths will be sudden, due to heart failure, only at the age indicated in the chart. As Leo represents heart, Aquarian age decreases the number of deaths due to prolonged and lingering diseases and increases sudden, and pleasant end.

Thus, when medical astrology finds general support and every medical expert is also a wise astrologer, we can take it for granted that the Aquarian age has commenced and diseases will be kept under control, and a few hospitals will be converted as hostels for students of astrology.

Astro-Meteorology
Astro-meteorology is useful for predicting the conditions of the weather and has received considerable attention in other countries, where it has been found to be very useful for pre-planning and thereby preventing any catastrophes such as heavy rains causing floods and breaches, or drought leading to poor crops, famine, polluted water, and epidemics. There is no use in complaining against anyone or criticizing any department; one can observe daily the weather reports given by meteorologists, who cannot be expected to be one hundred percent correct. It is important to remember the proverb "to err is human" and to recognize that sudden changes of weather, unexpected depressions in the bay, and storms are divine. Meteorologists cannot predict with certainty when and where one can expect breaches due to downpour of rain, or in which year there will be no rain so that intermittently restricted quantity of water may be supplied, commencing fairly early to avert the drought. However, astrology can give a correct picture years in advance, provided more research is carried out by intelligent, able, and learned astrologers.

This branch of science is becoming popular in other countries and has been developed to a marvellous degree of accuracy by a number of research workers. It has no connection whatsoever with the common almanacs published by the Government Weather Bureau. One of the greatest of astrologers, Llewellyn George, says, "It is only a matter of time, however, when nations generally will recognize this information and include it in their present calculations, thus making their system more practical, serviceable, and efficient". Indeed, this branch will benefit the government, agriculturists, and engineers to a great extent.

Judicial Astrology
Judicial Astrology is a branch of this science which gives knowledge to predict important events which a country will pass through, such as wars, earthquakes, financial improvement or crisis, losses by fire, flood, famine, etc. At present, Judicial Astrology is not complete and exhaustive; it may be said that it is yet in a preliminary stage. It has to be developed to a very great extent to offer useful predictions, when the public can take advantage of such clear and definite forecasts.

With the knowledge that one can gain with the present literature, it is impossible to predict exactly in which quarter a particular trouble or calamity can be expected, by whom, why, and when. But it will be vague. An astrologer cannot but mention many alternatives. That is why a few make sad confusions while predicting. The rules are too intricate to admit of clear definition and too contradictory to be easily and perspicuously reconciled.

Every sign indicates many countries and many towns. The whole world has five continents, each of which has many countries, innumerable cities, and just like stars, countless villages. The localities are many, but the signs are only twelve. So all these are to be indicated by these twelve signs only; i.e., let us imagine that letters are written and posted to people in each town in various countries in the world. The postal department has only twelve bags called Aries (Mesha), Taurus (Rishaba), Gemini (Mithuna), and so on, up to Pisces (Meena). So they have to sort suitably letters to all these localities in these twelve bags only. Each bag will be filled with many letters to various places.

Similarly, all these towns and countries are to be distributed among these twelve signs, and each sign, therefore, has to indicate many localities, e.g., Aries (Mesha) denotes Burgundy, England, Denmark, Germany, Palestine, Syria, etc., and many towns. If Aries is afflicted, normally, what is it that one can predict? Any or many of these places will have some trouble or other with many alternatives mentioned. None can predict precisely the exact place and the particular nature of trouble that one can expect and when, except to guess or to give confusing or vague predictions. Clear and definite predictions alone will be of immense use.

Generally, the tendency and ambition of an astrologer is to make attempts to predict events in every branch of astrology. The ambition will be achieved and it will prove to be beneficial if one specializes in one branch and gains some knowledge in the other branches also. Then alone one will be able to offer clear and correct predictions of which the government and the public can take advantage.

Let us take medicine; medical experts specialize in any one branch and contribute their mite; some specialize in optical surgery; some in E.N.T.; some in pulmonary diseases; some cardiac; some leprosy; some osseous system; some nervous system; some circulatory and so on. Why? Because they have realized the fact that it is difficult to master every branch by one and the same person in one's lifetime. Trying to master everything, they may not know anything useful to the patient.

Similarly, let us consider engineering. How many branches there are: e.g., mechanical, automobile, aeronautic, electrical, civil, public health, etc. Any one branch specialized means sound knowledge to the student in that branch and advantage to the public. Therefore, astrologers also should specialize before offering predictions in any one of the branches and even there, understand the insufficient data to give definite prediction, being aware of their limitations. Such astrologers, no doubt, will restore the reputation of the noble science, Astrology.

One or two predictions by a few astrologers may be taken for our consideration to judge whether these are in any way helpful or really harmful. One astrologer says that the configurations of the Planets in 1962-63-64 must be considered together. In many countries, crime wave and criminal activities will reach a new height. A few countries will witness famine conditions for some reason or other. Earthquake in some places will cause damage to property. Of course, in the countries and places wrecked by natural catastrophe, criminal activities also will prevail on a large scale.

The above is the prediction. Nowhere, the unexpected trouble encountered in October 1962, which is the first of its kind, was mentioned clearly (giving at least the week when such a difficulty could be expected and exactly from which source and why from that quarter alone). But it is said that there will be in this year, very disastrous natural catastrophes like earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, storms, excessive and untimely rain and snowfall, high death rate, and many accidents; how many alternatives? "Oh! God," says the reader. He asks why can't one definitely state which of these troubles is to be expected and where. How can a reader select any one of these? By offering such predictions, do not they unnecessarily create panic and fear in the minds of the general public, whereas astrology is intended more to give useful information, mental solace, and encouragement? Is it not a psycho-therapy?

Astrologers Should Not Afflict the Public with the Terrors of Severe Issues
Even when one is confident about one's predictions, one should convey them with sympathetic concern, in a mild tone, emphasizing the seriousness of the event but should not omit to make mention of it. Also, a few readers may feel that astrologers need not offer such useless predictions with thousands of alternatives.

Another takes a few horoscopes to read the fate of a country. One horoscope is said to be that of India, the other is claimed to be that of Independence, the third is mentioned as that of a ruler, and so on. He mentions a series of calamities taking into consideration any one of the three horoscopes. And analysing another horoscope, he gives courage saying that India will be left unscathed. When one waits and sees, the country had for the first time in the same month the unprecedented experience of the invasion by a neighbouring country, and vital changes in the administration also.

If one were to predict bad events, considering any one horoscope and also say that there is nothing to worry by reading another chart, the reader is not benefited. He does not know which is to be taken: either we will have trouble or we will be left unscathed. Such a prediction reminds one of the tactful astrologer who mentions to the husband of an expectant lady that his wife would give birth to a boy, and to the expectant mother, a girl. The readers request the astrologer, who is capable of predicting precisely, to offer definite predictions and avoid vague ones which are not really useful but actually harmful.

Honestly, we have to realise our limitations while offering predictions with the knowledge that can be gained with the literature available at present, as well as the necessity to mention thousands of alternatives. We all know that one cannot give clear, correct, and precise predictions as this branch of science is incomplete. However, some learned scholars were nearly correct in a few predictions, showing that judicial astrology is correct though incomplete. There are many instances, but a few alone are given. William Lily predicted that there would be a fire accident in 1666 in London, which came true. The Japanese Royal astrologers correctly predicted Japan's victory over Russia in 1905. America was warned in 1907 that it would face a financial crisis, which came very true. And it was not that there were no failures in their predictions. Failure, if any, was due to the difficulty with this branch of science, which is incomplete. These should be taken by the students of astrology as opportunities for earnest and intelligent research.

They have to note down the dates when some events happened in their country, the planetary positions on those dates, and apply the astrological principles. Only after many instances can one judge which sign and which degree and minute in it represents a town, and this finding is absolutely necessary to minimise the alternatives. Now we are not in possession of such data to offer clear predictions, and hence any prediction now given includes many alternatives.

There is another problem for research. About one hundred years ago, when astrologers predicted taking Virgo or Capricorn for India, they predicted that India would face some difficulties as these signs are afflicted. At that time, the prediction included sufferings of the people in the present independent India and the partitioned Pakistan also, since both were ruled by one King and the boundary of India then included Pakistan. Now also, the same signs are to be taken for India and Pakistan, and any prediction that India will be in danger will apply to Pakistan also.

It may be argued that either the Independence Chart or the formation of the Ministry or the chart of the Minister may be taken as the basis for prediction. Consideration of so many charts will lead to contradictory indications and indefiniteness in the predictions. Unless this branch is very well developed, one need not attach much weight to the predictions offered and get confused. A reader poses the following question to the astrologer who offers prediction: "All know that there was an earthquake in Bihar. Did anyone predict that Bihar alone will be afflicted and not Benares, Bhopal, or Baroda? The combination of the planets or their disposition is the same for all these places. Then why should Bihar alone face this calamity?" No explanation can be offered as to why Bihar alone should be victimized, because nowhere is it mentioned that Bihar, which is in a particular latitude and longitude on Earth, is represented by a particular declination and right ascension in the Zodiac. This branch of science to that extent is incomplete. If every locality is allotted a particular position in the Zodiac, one can easily predict with confidence about a particular locality, say Bihar. Such finding alone will be useful to the public and to the Government.

It is hence necessary to complete this branch by systematic and methodical research. Till that time, it will be advantageous if one confines to the extent to which definite predictions can be offered. It may be mentioned here that on 7 May 1962, the Delhi Edition of Indian Express published a feature about the author that, in the course of his lectures at the Bharathiya Vidya Bhavan, Delhi, on 27 April 1961, he had predicted that the share market would tumble down after 15 October 1962 due to some evil in the North. But as he was not sure about the nature of the evil, he had mentioned a few alternatives in the light of literature available at the time. It will be of interest to know that, in this magazine, research on mundane astrology carried out by Mod-Ast-Res-Institute, Madras, will regularly appear, and on those occasions when clear predictions can be offered, they will be published well in advance for the benefit of all.
Natal astrology concerns largely with the life of human beings. A chart is made out for the moment of birth and for the particular place of birth (Latitude and Longitude being taken for calculation). From such a chart one can read all events about the native; their character, temperament and peculiarities, longevity, condition of health, accident proneness, finance and fortune, marriage, birth of children and also their prosperity or adversity. Moreover, the actual date of any occurrence in their life can be calculated. Thus, natal astrology is very useful for one and all, whether they are born a king, a Kubera, or a beggar, for health and longevity are precious to every individual. Fortune, prosperity, and above all, peace of mind and happiness are desired by all. Hence, natal astrology is the most useful branch of this science and therefore, it behoves all of us to support and encourage genuine research, by trained workers and scholars, to bridge the incomplete phases in this, just as in every other branch of science.
It is a fact that 100% correct predictions cannot be given with the literature available and with the knowledge that we may gain by studying them alone. It is only by plodding, preserving and patiently carrying out research that one will be able to fill up the gap, supplement, improve, and make it perfect. One of the sub-branches of Natal Astrology may be discussed for the consideration of the readers.
There is a sub-branch called "Gochara Phalan" by the Hindus. Westerners call it "Transit". Let it be stated, with great humility for the information of the readers, that the method of prediction adopted by research scholars is, in a way, an improvement over the application of the general principles of astrology handed down to us by our ancient sages and scholars.
In the Western system, the astrologers take the radical position of the Sun at the time of birth and consider the relative positions of the Planets transiting in the Zodiac and give their predictions. In India and in the Hindu system, the position of the Moon at the time of birth of the native is taken as the starting and determining point to which the transiting positions of the Planets are related, and according to their relative positions, we read the results and say whether the time is auspicious or not. Both the methods will be found to be incomplete and therefore the percentage of failures is bound to be large. This cannot be of much advantage to those who desire to know their future.
The Western and the Hindu systems of predictions based on the transits of Planets fall in many cases whether referred either to the Sun or to the Moon alone. For transitory results, Fortuna deserves serious attention as it indicates certain results which are not shown by the aspects formed by the transiting planets to those in the natal chart.
When it is found that the results enjoyed by people born within a few minutes of each other show diametrically opposite results, we should try and find out the factor which is so fast moving as to cause opposite aspects and bring about such different effects. In those few minutes can planets move much? No. Then which will have a change in the position? It is not Lagna, thereby Fortuna, and then M.C.
All research scholars will surely declare that the fast changing Ascendant and Fortuna cause different aspects and produce different results. If therefore Fortuna is also included in all calculations and predictions offered, there can be no great room for disappointment.
Readers will do well at this stage to pause and ponder over the significant truths placed before them in the preceding paragraphs. That astrology, no doubt, is an accurate science can be proved by taking the following instances.
Identical results are enjoyed by people whose birth took place at the same minute, in the same Latitude and Longitude. Let me place before the readers in a tangible and systematic form my reasons:
The first instance relates to two persons born at the same time and who both got married to two career girls who were earning. They had no children but both couples were very fond of domestic pets, cats and dogs. The two males were lecturers producing identical results, with equal interest in politics, philosophy and religion. Minor events also in their lives were strikingly similar; for example, both suffered from toothache at the same time and on the same day. Yet, the two male partners were in no way related to each other and hailed from widely separated places.
Another instance is about two men born in the same village who narrated their experiences after they had lived there for a fairly long time. Their temperaments, behaviour and character were identical. Both had pleasing manners, were always cheerful and never rude to anyone. Both were robust in health and whenever one fell ill, the other also ailed from the same disease. Each of them lost a child in the same month, and had the same number of children. One was a journalist, while the other was a writer of fiction. Mercury, Mars and Jupiter were the signs who ruled over their professions. The culmination in this extraordinary similarity was in the death of these two natives on the same day.
Yet another instance relates to a report that appeared in a foreign journal in 1820. It mentioned that Samuel Hennings died at the age of 82. He was born on 4-6-1738 at a place situated in the same Latitude and Longitude as King George III, who ascended the throne in October 1760. Mr. Hennings was then an independent businessman. King George III got married on 8-9-1761 and on the same day Mr. Hennings took Elsie for his wife. Both had the same number of children of each sex. Both were long-lived and died at the same hour on 2-9-1820.
Instances can be multiplied for such remarkably coincident happenings. The principles governing such events will be explained later.

Horary Astrology
This branch of science is mysterious, perfect, wonderful, and most useful. After thoroughly understanding the principles, one can offer correct, clear, and precise predictions without any confusion. This helps the astrologer to confirm what prediction he or she has to give by using other methods which, when explained, will convince and satisfy the consultant.
Generally, the astrologer asks the querist to give a number, at random, within 108. The number that is given forms the basis for the prediction. Some may scoff at this branch of science, saying that the predictions given by Horary Astrology cannot be correct as the number given is, after all, a chance. They may suggest that the person could have given any other number or thought of one number and mentioned another. Such people do not realize that the querist cannot give any other number except the one which he or she had given. Occasionally, the lucky querist may mention a number, but the astrologer may mishear and calculate on the misheard number. Here, the divine force so works that the number taken by the astrologer gives a clear and correct answer, whereas the other number, mentioned by the querist, cannot offer a clear clue to the astrologer. They have no personal experience that it is the divine force which works and enables the astrologer to predict. The number that he or she gives depends upon his or her past action or Karma as well as the future results he or she is to enjoy, just as the moment of birth is the effect of his or her past Karma. None can convince that one's birth at the particular moment, whether normal or Caesarian, is a chance. If one were to reiterate, one is ignorant of the wonderful Divine Law. Do they have the choice of parents?
Generally, this branch of science is resorted to mainly by those who have no horoscopes or who doubt the correctness of them. This branch of science can never answer all questions and clear all doubts. Occasionally, it may appear for the beginners as though there are contradictory indications in astrology when they try to predict using other methods of prognostication. On those occasions, they can make the best use of Horary astrology for proper guidance and confirmation. Even when one is confident about one's own prediction in the other branches of the science, Horary Astrology has to be used as a final safe method to declare with confidence the results already obtained.
Suppose two people stand for election in the same locality or for any single seat as President, Chairman, etc. Horoscopes may or may not be correct. Even if correct charts are given, there may be a doubt whether 'A' will come out victorious or 'B'. That is why some predictions offered without using Horary system miserably failed. To be sure of one's prediction, Horary Astrology is the best and most reliable to be used with advantage.
This method is as rational and as scientific as any other branch of astrology and it is the sublime art of foreseeing events from the position of the Planets at the moment when one propounds seriously a question about any important matter. By applying it, one can predict the longevity, health, success or failure in one's enterprise, one's stay in foreign land or his or her return, the time of marriage, the description of partner, re-union or divorce, birth and death of children, sex of the child, results of the examination, recovery of lost articles, gain by lottery or races or speculation, success in litigation, treasure, legacy, and anything and everything on the earth.
This branch of science is not a bluff, it is not to dupe the gullible throng. But at the same time, it is not easy for the students of astrology to make predictions infallibly unless they are thorough with the principles of astrology available now. Some mistake that the astrologer uses Numerology and predicts. They are ignorant. The Number indicates the ascendant for that query and he or she calculates the position of planets for that moment, and then judges the result.

Electional Astrology is the branch which indicates the most auspicious time for commencing any new undertaking, such as marriage, upanayana, purchase of costly articles, construction of houses and buildings, admission to hospitals, performing religious and social functions, purchase of a car, admission to schools and colleges, joining duty, taking or handing over charge of duty, and purchasing lottery tickets.

Kabbalah Astrology
This will be dealt with in detail in another book.
Kerala Astrology
This prediction is offered by looking at a person's face or asking them to mention the name of a flower and having it as the basis for prediction. This also will be dealt with in another book.

Omens
Who wishes to predict or select a moment using any of these branches, it is necessary to look at the omens at the time of prediction. These will agree with the results obtained by either Horary, Kabala, or Kerala branches of astrology and it is useful for predicting with clarity and confidence. Omens are clear and correct indicators and thus they are good guidance for astrologers. Bhattotpala says in Prasnagyana that good or bad effects can be predicted through the internal and external omens which are the deciding factors. There are people who take a decision after noting the omens; they never proceed further in a matter, such as fixing up a marriage or purchasing a house, if the omens are ill and disheartening. Varahamihira says that an omen reveals the fruition of one's action, good or bad, done in the previous birth. The omens are not superstitious beliefs; omen is otherwise called "SAGUNA". This is a vast subject. It needs no skill to predict. One can refer to the subject on omens elaborately dealt with by Varahamihira in Brihath Samhita, and note the result directly. If, at a particular time, there is more than one omen, then the interpretation depends upon the individual. Anyhow, one should be intelligent.