## VENUS - THE PLEASANT PARTNER

Astronomy: Hindus considered Venus to be the most brilliant planet even at the dawn of history, appearing some months as the evening star and some months as the morning star. Other nations gave Venus two names, Phosphrous and Hesperus, as they thought the morning star Venus was different from the evening star Venus. Around 500 B.C., the great Greek geometer Pythagoras confirmed that both the morning and evening stars were identical.

Venus presents as a brilliant disc especially in the early morning, when agriculturists in the villages begin their routine work in the lands and Vedic Brahmins begin their daily routine prayers, etc. Venus is the brightest planet and can, at her best, outshine Sirius by 12 to 13 times.

Venus is much closer to the Sun than the Earth. Therefore, on some occasions, Venus will be between Earth and Sun, and on some occasions the Sun will be in between Earth and Venus. The average distance between the Sun and Venus is 67 million miles, with very little variation as the orbit of Venus is almost circular. The distance between Earth and Venus, during inferior conjunction, will be only 25 million miles.

The size of Venus is similar to that of the Earth, with a diameter of 700 miles compared to the Earth's 7900 miles. Its period is 225 days. The atmospheric layer around Venus is thick, peculiar, and fascinating. The brightness of Venus is due to the reflecting power of its atmosphere.

For observers on Earth, Venus can never be more than 48 degrees from the Sun. Therefore, when Venus is the evening star and 48 degrees away from the Sun, we can see it in the heavens for about 3 hours and 12 minutes after sunset.

Mythology: Venus is considered to be the Goddess of love, marriage, beauty, and comforts. It is called Maha Lakshmi, wife of Lord Vishnu, and is also known as one-eyed. The story is meant to impress upon the mind that if Venus is ill-posited, the eye will be affected.

Bali Chakravarthi was ruling both the Earth and the Heavens. The Devas and Indra appealed to Lord Vishnu to free them from Maha Bali. So, Lord Vishnu took the form of a dwarf and approached the emperor Bali, begging him to give three feet of land for his use. Bali had a wise preceptor, named Sukracharya, who understood the trick of the Lord and advised the emperor not to grant the request. In spite of it, Bali granted the request by pouring water in the hands of Lord Vishnu appearing in dwarf form. Sukracharya blocked the passage of the water by one of his eyes. Lord Vishnu took a grass and pierced through the eye of the Guru as though he was removing the obstacle, thus causing Sukracharya to lose an eye.

Venus is also known as Lucifer and Hesperus. Greeks call it Aphrodite; the Babylonians call it NANA; the Hebrews named it Astoreth; Assyrians called Venus Isktar; and the Phoenicians called it Astarte. Venus rules Yajur Veda and Vasantha Rithu (April and May). Venus is called Kama, for one's passion depends on the strength of Venus and the aspects it receives, as Venus is chiefly concerned with the emotional outlets and character.

Astrology: Venus is a feminine planet. It rules the signs Taurus-Rishaba and Libra-Thulam, the second and seventh signs of the Zodiac. The former is an earthy and fixed sign, whereas the latter is an airy and movable one. Being a feminine planet, it governs gentle and refined attributes. That is why people ruled by Venus are kind and sociable. Taurus suggests that the native will be endowed with a pleasant and handsome countenance, as it is the second sign of the Zodiac; for the second house indicates one's cheek, eyes, etc. Libra shows that one will have a symmetrical form, graceful manners, will be inclined to purchase peace at any price, and be level-headed and will try to lead a happy and harmonious wedded life. By their pleasing personality, calmness, patient hearing to what others say, and refined nature, they will soften the ruffled feelings of others, change their attitude and prove to be peacemakers. Also, Venus furnishes the bond between all members of the family, whatever may be the relationship. Libra, being the seventh sign of the Zodiac, Venus shows love. Mr. Max Heindel says, "Venus vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, rejoices not in inquiry but in truth, beareth all things, believeth all things and endureth all things."

Venus gets exalted in Pisces-Meena. Its Moolatrikona sign is Libra-Thulam. It gets debilitated in Virgo-Kanni. Aries and Scorpio are the houses of detriment to it. Pisces is the 12th sign of the Zodiac. The 12th house indicates Suka Sayana or conjugal bliss. Hence, a strong Venus in a chart is a testimony that the native will have attraction to the other sex early in life; also, they will have attraction to all matters contributing to amusement and gratification of the senses. Pisces is misused in those cases where they have the conjunction or aspect from both planets, Mars and Saturn, as Saturn is to deviate from man-made law and Mars is to give opportunity, courage and strength to avail. In Taurus, Moon gets exalted, whereas in Libra, Saturn is exalted. No planet is debilitated in Taurus; but Sun is debilitated in Libra. This is a testimony that Venus is for Iha-Loka-Sukha and it can bestow one all comforts, enabling them to lead a pleasant life in this world.

Physical Features: Venus produces people of average height, plump body, round and pimpled face, or oval and very attractive one, bright, kind, and pleasing eyes, a pleasant voice, a sweet smile, and curly hair. If Venus is adversely afflicted, it bestows less beauty. Generally, Venusians are the winners in any competition, especially when they apply for the reception department, as private secretaries, salesmen, propagandists, etc. Other than the occasion when a choice is to be made among a few competitors for marriage.

Part of the Body: Venus governs the eyes, the generative system, the throat, the chin, the cheeks, the kidneys, etc.

Diseases

Affection in the eye, irregularity in the catamenia, diseases of the ovaries, mucous diseases, skin diseases, Bright's disease, swelling, goitre, gout, anaemia, and other complications due to over-indulgence in amusements, eating, drinking, etc., including gonorrhea and syphilis can all be caused by afflictions to the Sun and Venus. If Mars, Moon, and Venus are ill-posited in a horoscope, then the native will have a discharge for a larger number of days and the quantity will be profuse. If Saturn afflicts, then the discharge will be scanty, but the pain near the chest and the lower abdominal region will be present for some days before and after the period. If Mars, Venus, and Sun are afflicted, then the native will have to undergo treatment by a surgeon to have a child. If Saturn afflicts Sun and Venus, one may have fibroid tumours. If Jupiter afflicts Sun and Venus, it indicates cancer. If Mercury afflicts by the semi-square or semi-demi-square aspect with Venus, one may have nervous disorders which may lead to hysteria. As Venus represents the beauty of the skin, when afflicted by Saturn or Kethu, one will suffer from eczema, leprosy, or leucoderma. Thus, considering the adverse aspect to Venus, one is to judge the nature of the disease.

Injuries May Be Caused by Accidents Involving Any Vehicle, Such as Car Accidents, Plane Accidents, or Carts Running Over Someone, as Well as Cycles. They May Also Be Caused by Animals and Birds Governed by Venus, Such as Panthers, Bulls, Cows, Buffaloes, Goats, etc. Those Who Keep Birds and Animals as a Hobby May Have Peacocks, Sparrows, etc.

Places: Bedroom, Dance and Dining Room, Cinema Theatre, Drama Hall, Garden, Nursery, Fountains, Banqueting Hall, Scent Manufacturing Factory, Automobile Industrial Places, Shipping Yards, Aerodrome, Chemical Industrial Areas, Silk and Rayon Industrial Quarters, Mica Mines (if Saturn is conjoined with, or aspecting Venus), Glass Manufacturing Places, etc.

Political: Ceasefire, peace, and prosperity in the country. No more necessity for control or permits, but opportunity for free trade laws favorable for transport, railway, shipping, etc., for the people, musicians, and ladies, an expansion program, and export facility for silk, textile, rayon, toiletries, perfumeries, mica, chemicals, cinema films, and women's welfare.

Economics: Satisfactory dividends, good relationships among partners and shareholders, issue of bonus shares, improvement of the industry and much prosperity, rise in share prices, and flotation of new companies dealing in any of the products governed by Venus.

Products: The finished goods of the textile, silk, and rayon industries; silver, copper, glass mica, toilets, perfumery, fancy goods, photographs, films, hosiery for ladies, confectionery, sandalwood oil, fruits, flowers, sugar, chemicals, rubber, cars, ships, aeroplanes, embroidery, tailoring machines, musical instruments, radios, paints, milk, petrol, cotton, pomegranates, gooseberries, sandalwood, dandelions, jasmine, musk, punugu, nutmeg, condiments, Asoka trees, cherries, white poppies, chestnut figs, apples, and all other juicy and tasty fruits, rubber, and tobacco.

Profession
Musicians, gamblers, cinema actors, actresses, film producers, and those employed in transport, automobile, railway, bus, taxi, lorry, air travel, shipping, food department, animal husbandry, slaughter house, agriculture, estates, coffee, tea, rubber, opticians, glass, mica, and plastic, linen drapers, tailors, painters, jewelers, players, embroiderers, those employed to make-up, dress, comb, fiddlers, pipers, and those involved in drama, dealers in musical instruments, and other related products can be predicted based on the strength of the second house, Venus, Neptune, Mercury, Mars, and Saturn. If the second house is strong and Venus indicates one's profession, he will be a vocal musician, a singer, or poet. If the third house has a connection with Neptune and Venus, he will be using string instruments. If the sign is a short one, such as Aquarius, he will play the violin. But if it is Gemini or Libra, a sign of long ascension, he will have a Veena. If Venus is in the third or ninth house and is having a beneficial aspect from Mercury, and if either is in an airy sign, he may be good at playing the flute or Nagaswaram. Short signs, such as Aquarius, indicate the flute, while long signs portray fertile imagination and he may be interested in Jaladharangam. A strong Mars, receiving a good aspect from Venus, shows that he will be acquainted with Gatam. Saturn, Venus, and Mars indicate that he will be an expert in Mridangam, as Mars is for manual labour, Venus for skin, and Saturn for the dead and hence for leather. Therefore, this combination is necessary for them.

Rulership:
Venus is known as Kalathra Karaka, meaning that it is the chief governor for marriage. It shows whether one will be faithful in love and allow their partner to enjoy life, or if they will be troublesome and unreliable, making married life a living hell.
Venus also indicates the partner in business, if it has any connection with the second, sixth, and tenth houses in the horoscope.
Venus is the chief planet connected with vehicles, known as Vahana Karaka. The fourth house and Venus indicate whether one can have the comforts of conveyance, etc.
For those born during the day, Venus is the Karaka for mother. (The fourth house and its lord also signify mother.)

Lucky Colors: White, Cream, Ivory
Lucky Numbers: 6, 15, 24, 33, 42, 51, etc.
Lucky Day: Friday
Lucky Metal and Stone: Copper, Silver, Brass, Beryl, Coral, Jade, Diamond, Alabaster
Lucky Star: On days when the Moon transits in Bharani, Poorva Palguni, and Poorvashada stars.

Modification and Aspects of Venus:
As Venus is never more than 48 degrees away from the Sun, the only aspects which can be formed with the Sun are:
1. Conjunction : when both are together either within 12 degrees when Venus approaches the Sun or within 17 degrees when Venus gets separated from the Sun. (Good)
2. Parallel: Equal distance from the celestial equator north or south, or one north and the other south.
3. Vigintile: 18 degrees away, which is moderately good.
4. Semi-demi-square: When both of them are 22 and a half degrees away, which is evil.
5. Semi-Sextile: When they are 30 degrees apart, which produces favourable results due to a harmonious aspect.
6. Semi-quintile or decile: 36 degrees, which is the longitudinal distance between them, which is also a favourable one.
7. Semi-square: Or 45 degrees distance between them, which is evil. Thus, seven aspects are possible and according to the aspect, one can expect beneficial or adverse results in their joint periods; i.e., in their dasa and bhukties, and also when they form an aspect during progression and transit.

Effects of Sun and Venus in Close Conjunction
For those who have Venus as their ruling planet, a close conjunction of the Sun and Venus indicates that the native will enjoy sociability, pleasure, comfort, luxury, and clubs, societies, and places of entertainment. They will be hospitable and generous, with a cheerful and courteous nature. They will be fond of art, music, and poetry, and may be successful musicians or film producers.

If the Sun and Venus occupy the 5th, 7th, or 9th house, it may indicate that the native's wife is defective or has a disease in the generative system. An adverse aspect may lead to delays in marriage or disappointment, and a lack of harmony in domestic life. The extent of the harm done depends on other bad aspects as well. These effects will be experienced in their mutual dasas, bhukties, and anthras. If the Sun is the significator of marriage, the partner's star may be Karthikai or Pooram.

Moon Forming Good Aspect with Venus:
The person who has this beneficial aspect and to whom Venus is the ruling planet, by being born in one of its signs or in Ascendant with Venus strong therein, will, by nature, be polished and refined. They will be inclined to develop art and will appear beautiful through their neat dress, and also by the use of fragrant scent, powder, etc, to a limited extent. They will be fond of music, pleasure, light literature, cinema, drama, and other entertainments. They will be affectionate and attractive, gentle and good, sociable and sympathetic. They will be treated with respect in the company of young people of the opposite sex. 

If Venus is the significator of their earnings, it promises splendid earnings, probability of rich inheritance through mother or wife or both, possession of luxurious and costly articles, furniture, and vehicles, etc. Naturally, their intelligence and imagination will be improved, and this will contribute to a happy and harmonious life. The following proverb will prove to be true in their cases: "The gown is hers that wears it, and the world is his who enjoys it". They may have satisfactory earnings, by catering to public tastes and needs, by running confectioneries, restaurants, boarding and lodging houses, or dealing in perfumeries, music, cinema, petrol, transport, shipping etc. They will be careless in habits and manners. The relationship among the partners will be very cordial; they cannot suffer scandal and unpopularity. 

If Moon is a significator of marriage, the partner's star may be Rohini and 23rd May to 6th June will be lucky. Adverse aspects will give the most undesirable results and will make the native's life horrible and not worth living.

Mars Forming Good Aspect with Venus

Mars owns Aries and Scorpio, while Venus owns Libra and Taurus, and the two planets are antagonistic in their qualities. Mars represents masculine, bold, militant, and rash action, while Venus indicates peace, harmony, calmness, and courtesy. This aspect portrays that one will be courteous, well-behaved with pleasing manners and attracting all by their personal charm. It gives courage and confidence. One will be fond of adventure, amorous, and ambitious. They may be proficient in instrumental music and have a hobby of dealing in cars. They may also be extravagant.

Mars aspecting Venus promises greater earning capacity and ability, but it will not allow them to save as much as one who has the good aspect of Saturn to Venus. Mars gives enough of energy, authority, responsibility, tact, push, and activity. If Mercury also forms a good aspect, one will not mind spending money on advertisement, display, show, and propaganda. They may also be the patrons for most of the clubs, societies, and sabhas. They will be able to make good gain through sports, and may get lucrative posts in any office, even if they are not fully qualified for it. They may also have practical artistic ability or mechanical skill, as well as expertise in automobile engineering, tailoring, singing, dancing, owning cinema theaters, producing films, salesmanship, dress, jewels, ornaments, diamonds, textiles, photography, agriculture, coffee, and tea board, etc.

Adverse aspect of Mars to Venus leads one to an immoral life. This may create many enemies due to rivalry, spite, and jealousy, and life will not be smooth. Passion cannot be controlled, and there may be separation and dispute, which may even end in divorce. If Saturn also forms an evil aspect, it may lead to the murder of the other partner. Worry through womenfolk, overindulgence, deranged health, loss of money, scandal, and ill-repute are the unfavourable results. A few may meet with accidents through conveyance.

In the case of those who have good aspects, if Mars is the significator of marriage, the partner may be born in Bharani star or Mrigasirisha first half or Chithirai second half, and the lucky period may be between April 26th to 10th May, between 8th June and 14th June, and between 17th October and 23rd October.

Effects of Mercury Forming Good Aspect with Venus
Mercury and Venus can never be more than 76 degrees apart, so they can only form a few aspects which are moderate in strength and give results. The strong aspects such as squares and trines cannot be formed. Good aspects make the native good-natured and they will keep all members cheerful with their pleasant and humorous talk. They will be good artists, developing taste in the fine arts, music, etc. They will have keen imagination and proficiency in literature, sanitary engineering, poetry, comedy, and drama-writing, and will mostly have contact with literates. They will not hesitate to stand surety for anyone without getting entangled later. They will have plurality of interests and will gain money mostly as agents, salesmen, brokers, managers to ladies well-placed in life, or as assistants to actresses, musicians, etc., or by playing second violin and pleasing employers. If Saturn also forms a favourable aspect, the natives will deal in Frigidaire. Mars, by lending its beneficial aspect, indicates that they may deal in electric heaters, motor batteries, etc.

If there are adverse aspects, the native should never stand surety to anyone, nor sign cheques, etc., without properly scrutinising them. Mental worry and ill repute are threatened. Any confidential letter written to an intimate friend belonging to the opposite sex may fall into the hands of others, and the secret activities will be revealed. As Mercury represents the postal authorities, the letter may be mistakenly delivered to a wrong person or at the wrong moment. If Jupiter is not favourable, one may be sure that one day or other, the person will have to pay a penalty to the Income-Tax department, especially during the joint periods of Mercury and Venus.

Benefits of Jupiter Forming a Good Aspect with Venus

The two planets Jupiter and Venus are the brightest and are very strong benefics by nature. Hence, the persons will be polite, dutiful, honest, chaste, and faithful. They will have faith in occult science and in God. They will follow tradition and will never dare to break the law, nor will they contribute to a breach of peace. They will cultivate universal love, both brotherhood and sisterhood. They will be just in their actions and very hospitable. Charity, purity, piety, equity, and equanimity are bestowed on the persons having this beneficial aspect. One will have the desire to have higher studies with the facility and opportunity to study. Success is also assured in their ventures. Good health and a smooth life for a long number of years are also presaged. They will be able to get a good financier who will be honest and ever helpful. Much gain and success in business are assured. One can prosper in court of law, income tax, sales tax, etc., bank, women's college; honor and reputation will be on the increase; one may become the trustee of a temple; director of any company dealing in luxurious commodities; manager or cashier in the transport department. By marrying one in a high circle, one's position and finance will suddenly improve. One can enjoy all the fruits of life in this world and also be pious and God-fearing. Useful investments, a rise in career, the birth of a child, and good luck are indicated. If Jupiter happens to be the significator of a wife or husband, she or he may be born in Poorvashada star or Visakam first three quarters in Libra sign. The lucky period will be between 26th December to 10th January, or 7th November to 7th November.

Saturn Forming Good Aspect with Venus

Generally, those who have a good aspect between Venus and Saturn will experience a rise in life, followed by a greater fall. Saturn represents the grave, so the evil Saturn will ensure that the person is one foot in the grave.

Before launching an enterprise, one will consider deeply. Fertile imagination, farsightedness, steadiness, perseverance, honesty, and sincerity will make one very good at planning and scheming. The native will hold a responsible position of trust and meet all reasonable expenses. They will be economical, prudent, and frugal, but not miserly.

Legacy through marriage, gain through investment in lands, gardens, nurseries, stocks and shares, and businesses relating to coal, mine produce, leather, skin and hides, and cotton textiles will bring prosperity in mine-engineering. A good aspect of Saturn to Venus shows marriage in the proper age and mutual love between the couple. However, an adverse aspect will threaten either with a delay in marriage, denial, or disappointment, or both partners may seek satisfactory pleasure with strangers, old people, widows, or widowers. This will lead to a loss of moral backbone, financial loss, domestic worry, separation, bereavement, disappointment, and ill health, such as eczema, venereal troubles, and leprosy. There may be difficulty in inheriting property, the appointment of a guardian, or the father writing out a will and leaving the property in the names of the person's children, denying the native all rights. This could lead to a loss of position, scandal, reversals, and downfall, and even good friends may shun the native's society. One may be charged with bribery, dishonesty, falsification of accounts, favouritism, or prosecuted for debauchery or drink, and there may be litigation and divorce. Jupiter

Venus Receiving Good Aspects from Rahu and Jupiter

Kethu: As Rahu and Kethu do not have a sign, find out in which star and sign they are. Consider the lords of the star and the sign as if they are individually aspecting Venus. Both results will be enjoyed, especially during the period of the lord of the star and the sign during Venus Dasa or Venus Bhukthi.

Venus Receiving Good Aspect from Uranus:
The person will have an attractive personality and be exceedingly magnetic, particularly to the opposite sex. They will also attract a host of powerful friends who will be helpful to them. In any competition, they will come out successful due to their magnetic and charming personality. Mentally, they will be alert, active, bright, intuitive, quick, and inspirational. This aspect gives them a love of art, music, poetry, discovery, and research. When they meet someone suddenly, they will fall in love with them and be happy as though a Gandharva Vivaham has taken place. Uranus will assist them by this aspect, allowing for quick and sudden consummation. They will be much attached to the other, as the eccentricity of Uranus is toned down by the soft and peaceful Venus. Marriage will be a happy and harmonious one, with no trouble or jealousy through courtship or wedding. They will not be so hasty as to commit a mistake and divorce later, like Dhusyantha who ought to have had both the beneficial aspect of Uranus to Venus and also the evil aspect from Mars and Saturn to Venus.

Railway, air travel, research, fine arts, investments, and speculation are some of the sources through which one can make money. It is also likely to have a windfall when Uranus forms a good aspect with Venus during its transit, and when Venus dasa or Venus bhukti and a favourable sub period operates. When Venus receives a good aspect from Neptune, the person will be versatile; Neptune gives fertile imagination and deep emotions. They will be pure and maintain a sterling character, provided there is no evil aspect from Mars and Saturn to Venus. Neptune indicates that the partner is reliable and faithful, mostly due to their kindness, sympathy, and love. One may have an interest in mystical subjects, or be a successful speculator or a good musician, if Neptune is in the 5th house. Neptune gives proficiency in instrumental music, especially when one does Raga Alapana. For Swaram, Mercury also must form a good aspect. Cinema film producers are very successful through those pictures which are released at the time Neptune, by transit, forms a strong beneficial aspect with both its original position at the time of birth, and also with Venus in the radical chart.

Neptune forming a good aspect shows that the native will be successful, join a happy society, spend a mirthful time, engage in devotional practices, and enjoy extreme prosperity. However, if Neptune forms an evil aspect, one must exercise care in food and drinks and avoid narcotics. There is always the danger of ptomaine poisoning and misplaced confidence can land one in trouble. There is also the danger from secret organisations. It is advisable not to have a partner or private secretary in business, as they may be cheats and bring in mental worry, financial loss, ill repute, etc. One will be wasting money through ladies without any benefit or pleasure.