## SATURN - SANI

Astronomy: Our Ancients Knew Only the Seven Planets

Our ancient ancestors were aware of seven planets: the Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn. Saturn, known as "Sanaischara," moves along the Zodiac slowly compared to the other planets. It is the outermost planet known to them. However, Uranus, Neptune, and other planets discovered more recently are farther away from the Sun and Earth and move much more slowly than Saturn. Saturn is visible to the unaided eye.

Saturn is surrounded by a system of three concentric rings. These rings are separate, with only black empty space in between any two rings. Saturn appears like a blue ball with three yellow rings. It is 886 million miles away from the Sun and is smaller than Jupiter, with a diameter of around 75,000 miles. It has nine moons. Saturn is about 700 times larger in volume than Earth, but its weight is less than 100 times that of Earth.

Saturn takes nearly 29.5 years to go around the Sun. Therefore, on average, Saturn passes through each sign for a period of over 2.5 years.

Mythology: Saturn is Called 'Yama'

Why is Saturn called 'Yama'? It is the chief governor for 'Longevity' and carries out the duty of God Siva or Rudhra. Saturn is a cold, icy planet, which is why it is said that "Icy hands are laid on one" meaning that one is dead. Saturn is the father of the two significators of evil, Gulika and Mandhi, and is also called Neelan and Mandhan. It is said that when Indrajit was about to be born, Saturn stretched its leg from the 11th house to the 12th, so that Saturn could fill the child with pride and bring about a great fall eventually. Ravana tried to keep all planets in the 11th house at the time of the birth of his son, Indrajit, as planets in the 11th house will invariably do good to the person concerned. However, the Devas, realising the consequences, appealed to Saturn who encouraged the Devas by saying that he alone could sanction what they wanted, with least effort. Saturn in the 11th house is very good, but Saturn in the 12th house is very, very bad. So, Saturn stretched its leg to the 12th Bhava. When Ravana was informed that a son was born, he wanted to confirm whether all planets were occupying the 11th house. To his distress, Saturn was found stretching its leg to the 12th house. Ravana, noted for his rash and foolhardy actions, suddenly cut off the leg of Saturn. Hence, Saturn is called 'Lame', meaning that Saturnians are slow.

Saturn is the son of Sun, and their qualities and characteristics are diametrically opposed to each other. Saturn also never agrees with Moon. This is why Saturn is allotted Capricorn and Aquarius, the signs just opposite to those of the luminaries. According to Westerners, Saturn is the son of Uranus, who married Rhea. When he understood that children born to him would govern the world, he destroyed them. But Jupiter survived. So when Jupiter was born, the mother gave him some hard stuff wrapped in cloth which Saturn did away with. But Jupiter escaped. God always pays everyone in the same coin, and Saturn was dethroned by Uranus, in turn, Jupiter deprived Saturn and taught the law of nature.

There are many stories about Saturn. A few others say that Saturn represents 'Brahma', but this is not supported by the general role that Saturn plays in human lives. To me, the conception of Saturn representing Lord Siva-Rudhra is more appealing. Sun may be called the 'Brahma', as well as Jupiter, but Saturn has the characteristics of Siva doing the duty of Siva, which is why Navagrahas are installed in Siva temples, and Saturn is called Neelan and Siva is called Neelakantan. Saturn rules Sasira Ruthu-February and March, the cold months of the year. I am sure, it is the work of a benefic Saturn".

Astrology: Saturn is a barren, binding, cold, constant, dry, defensive, hard, nervous, and secretive planet. It governs the houses Capricorn and Aquarius. The moolatrikona house, or the day house, is Aquarius and the night house is Capricorn. Though Saturn is the son of the Sun, it rules the sign opposite to that of the Sun. Saturn's exalted sign is Thula or Libra, where the Sun gets debilitated. Saturn's debilitated sign is Aries, which is the exaltation sign of the Sun. Leo, owned by the Sun, and Cancer, owned by the Moon, are the houses of fall for Saturn.

Saturn is said to occupy friend's quarters in Mithuna (Gemini) or Kanni (Virgo) ruled by Mercury and Rishaba (Taurus) and Thulam (Libra) ruled by Venus, and is considered to be in an enemy's camp while occupying other houses. Saturn is considered to be very favorable for people born in the signs owned by Venus, whereas Saturn is evil to those born in the signs governed by Mercury.

Saturn, according to Uttara Kalamrita, proves to be beneficial when it is in its own sign or when it occupies the signs of Jupiter or when it is exalted. But, one peculiarity has to be carefully remembered. If Saturn, by lordship, is a benefic, then it should not be strong by being in Swakshethra, exalted, or Vargothama to produce favorable results during Venus sub period. Kalidas is of the opinion that a strong Raja Yoga Saturn in Venus period will make one beg aims in the street even if the person is born a King or a Kubera.

According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Saturn ruling the constellations Pushya, Anuradha, and Uthrapadhra will modify the results of planets in any of the three stars so much that what Saturn has to offer to the native by its lordship and occupation is given by the planet in its star(s).

Saturn will cause delay. It can deny. It will disappoint. Disharmony, dispute, difficulty, despondency, dejection, and differences are the outcome of an evil Saturn. Plodding, persevering, patiently working, prudence, frugality, economy, saving, endurance, industry, thrift, power to keep secrets, stability, self-control, sense of duty, etc., are attributed to a beneficial Saturn. Lazy, lethargic, and idle persons are born under the influence of a malefic Saturn. Never will they have the mind to work. If they begin to do anything, some impediment, obstacle, or hindrance dissuades or discourages them. They become diffident; there is the fear whether it would be possible to come out successful. So they are anxious; they suspect others. Saturn causes distrust.

Saturnians will always miss the bus. They are mostly late to start, to do, to receive the benefit, etc. They may try to speak on the platform; they may prepare well; but they will remember the points only after they resume their seats. Students under the influence of Saturn cannot recollect all points; when they come out of the examination hall, they will recollect everything. A Saturnian may visit a friend's house for a particular work. On reaching the place, he will spend the time on other things. There will be some hindrance and he will find it difficult to attend to his work.

Saturn is a powerful planet either as a malefic or as a benefic. Let us see what a benefic Saturn has done. One student, while consulting me said, "Sir, I am in love with a girl. I think, from the way in which she conducts herself, she is also in love with me. Daily, in the morning she comes by a bus and I wait in the bus stand till that bus comes. I jump into it. Believe me or not, everyday, I find at least one friend of my father sitting by her side and offer a seat next to him or away from her. In the evening, I experience similar obstacles. On important days, the phone gets out of order. I am sure, it is the work of a benefic Saturn."

Astrologers say that I am running Saturn's period; there is always some difficulty or the other in the way of fulfillment of my wishes. What do you say? The reply was this: 'That you run Saturn's period is correct. But Saturn is a benefic to you. The girl whom you love is one of the twins. Thank this Saturn! Do you know why? You would have mistaken the other twin and behaved in a distasteful manner. Consider your position and that of her sister whom you love. Luckily, old persons representing Saturn intervened and saved you from such a dirty situation. Saturn will delay, so be cautious and careful." This is how a benefic Saturn saves. See how a malefic Saturn wrecks. I went to my friend's house to borrow money and when I pressed the calling bell, the person to whom I owed money opened the door and said in a loud voice, "How many times am I to demand money from you? When do you propose to make the payment?" The house owner whom I wanted to approach asked what the matter was. Readers will be knowing who would have answered this question. 
The fellow who opened the door narrated the story and ended by saying that I was a defaulter for many years. Now, who is Saturn? The fellow who opened the door.
People born on Saturdays, or in Capricorn or Aquarius as Ascendants, or in the constellations Pushya or Anuradha or Uthrapathra, will take on the role of Saturn and do good or evil depending on the favourable or unfavourable position of Saturn during its period. Saturn is the chief governor for longevity, occupying the house of longevity, i.e. the 8th house, and gives a long span of life to the native. Jupiter is the chief governor for production and expansion, and hence as Jupiter produces, Saturn destroys to maintain equilibrium. People born under the influence of Saturn do not relish hot stuff, preferring cold dishes, preferably preserved in a frigidaire, as Saturn is a cold planet. They also prefer old and preserved food stuff, and astringent and sour tastes.
Saturn, when benefic, makes a person true, reliable, honest, sincere, faithful, and chaste. It also aids for concentration, meditation, and prayers. A Jupiterian is a Vedantist, Purohit, or preacher (whether they practise or not), whereas a Saturnian is one who practices, does not preach much, grows a beard, observes silence (mounam), keeps up penance, avoids feasts, but now and then periodically fasts, prefers seclusion, and shuns society. Jupiter is for expansion, improvement, and opening many branches, whereas Saturn consolidates, concentrates, and is economical and calculating. The colour of Saturn is blue. When one is filled with sorrow or depressed, one should not use blue colour, but instead use red, symbolising the character of Mars, to gather courage and be active. Whenever a person runs the evil period of Saturn, some friends may suggest to use blue colour, but one should not fall victim to this, and instead use red or pure gold. Saturn gives such diseases as take a long time to be cured, and all chronic ailments, particularly those of the bony system, are attributable to Saturn. Saturn denotes all matters kept hidden or in secret, and the subject of geology is governed by him. Saturn is next to Mars in indicating lands and estates, and gives pure blue, black, dark brown, and indigo as colours prescribed to Saturn by Westerners.

Physical Features:
Saturn produces people who are thin-built, bony, and pale, or of a dark complexion. The face may appear melancholic or much older than the person's actual age. The eyes are deep-set and may appear as though they are staring. Piercing eyes with a profuse growth of dark hair on the eyebrows are distinguishing features of a Saturnian. Generally, Saturn makes one a little deaf. The person may request that people repeat what they say and hold their hands near their ears, suggesting that the speaker speak loudly. The limbs are usually long and thin.

Parts of the Body: Osseous System - Bones, Hair and Growth, Ears, Teeth, Pneumogastric Nerve

Diseases and Defects
Saturn and Moon forming an unfavourable aspect can cause obstruction of lymphatic circulation, nutrition, retention of waste in the body, hardened membranes, pyorrhea, and pasteurization. Smallpox is caused by the adverse aspect between Saturn, Mars, and Moon, which results in pus. Chickenpox, however, is caused by Mars and Moon alone, and ends in a vesicular stage.
Saturn and Mars in an evil aspect can cause falls, injury, bruises, operations, amputations, fractures, curvature of the spine, and gallstones. Mercury afflicted by Saturn can produce a fear complex that appears like madness, ear trouble, deafness (with pus in the ear if Moon is also afflicted), chills, cold, diphtheria, asthma, pulmonary consumption, defective speech, paralysis, Vitamin B and enzyme deficiencies.
Saturn and Jupiter in mutual affliction can cause impotency, constipation, sciatica, Bright's disease, locomotor ataxia, nausea, and cancer. Sun and Saturn in an adverse aspect can cause high blood pressure, cerebral haemorrhage, cerebral anemia, thrombosis, cardiac trouble, and gout. Venus and Saturn in an evil aspect can cause venereal diseases, leprosy, eczema, baldness, black or blue patches, and weakness due to malpractices.

Plants and Herbs:
Leguminous Seeds, Sesame, Plantain, Hemp, Ivy, Rye, Black Grains, Barley, etc.

Places: Obscure valleys, hills, forests, deserts, caves, dens, sepulchers, ruinous, dilapidated buildings, very old buildings, churches, temples, holes, trenches, coal-pits, cesspools, wells, stinking places, slum areas, dirty places, saloons, leather tanning factories, bone meal factories, and other places with nauseating smells.

Political: Construction of large buildings mostly for scientific research, laws concerning labor problems, disagreement and differences of opinion among the members of Parliament, death or overthrow of one in power, danger to the prestige of the nation, prohibition, control, rationing, emergency powers (not misusing independence), famine, earthquake, unnecessary and unavoidable wastage of public money, such unsuccessful attempts as are made by Research Departments and Geological Surveys.

Economy: Heavy taxation is discouraging the private sector, a decrease in exports, difficulty in foreign exchange, labour problems such as sit-in strikes that are not satisfying either side, famine, floods, earthquakes which have rendered many homeless; nationalisation; acquisition of property, estates, and mines from private owners and taking away their business; wars, difficulty in transport; loss of materials, men, vehicles, conveyance, arms, and ammunition; and scarcity of all commodities.

Products: Lead (with Sun); Antimony (with Moon); Kerosene (with Moon and Venus); Petrol (with Moon, Venus, and Mars); Petroleum Products (with Moon and Mars); Coal (with Mars); Mine, Mine Ones (with Mars and Mercury); Hume Pipes (with Mars and Venus); Cement (with Venus); Leather; Hides; Skim (with Mars and Sun); Metallurgy (with Venus); Wood.

Profession
Dealers in lead, iron, black articles, hair, chowrie, wool, leather, quarry, metals, mine ores, and the products mentioned above; those who organise and manage big concerns either sponsored or assisted by the government, service in the local board, panchayat board, district board, or government; surgeons; agriculturists, preaching old ideas, practising ancient customs, and following tradition; service in museums and stadiums; masons, engravers, surveyors, engineers, contractors, and builders; venereal experts; and X-ray technicians.
Rulership
Saturn is called "Ayulkaraka", and the span of one's life is chiefly governed by Saturn. Mars frames its own and does everything in public, known to others. Saturn follows its own law and does everything in public, known to others.

Mercury and Saturn: Engineers, old Purana writers, novelists, censors, shorthand writers, stenographers (with Mars), intelligence departments, false propagandists, tale-carriers, blackmailers (with Venus), woodcutters, teachers, scientists, etc.

Jupiter and Saturn: Physicians, Mine Owners, Brokers of Landed Properties, Bankers, Religious Endowments, Political Offices, Scientific Laboratories, Large Companies, Clubs, Societies, and Birth Control Appliance or Propaganda Advocates.

Venus and Saturn: Dealers in Mica or Workers in Mica Mines, Tailors, Piper (who goes on continuously playing for Sruthi-otthu Oodhubhavan), Pimps (Mercury), Playback, Extras in the Film Field, Draftsmen, Trainers of Horses and Elephants, Experts in Skin Diseases, Leprosy, and Venereal Diseases, etc.

Uranus and Saturn

Telepathy, Osteopathy, Healing without Medicine, Occult Scientists, Railway Service, Geologists, Astrologers, Mesmerists, Depressors, Dejection, Difficulties, Disputes, Detentions, Deafness, Dutiful, Economical, Emaciated, Excavations, Foundations, Frigidaires, Funerals, Fatal Grudges, Gravel, Hindrances, Hesitations, Hiding, Hearing, Hatred, Impediments, Immovables, Ice, Insides, Jealousy, Killing, Losses, Lead, Leather, Labour, Laments, Melancholy, Misfortune, Neediness, Neglect, Old Age, Obnoxiousness, Poverty, Practicality, Quarries, Quietness, Retrenchment, Rheumatism, Secrecy, Scapegoats, Sadness, Skin, Thriftiness, Tunnels, Trenches, Undergrounds, Until, Valleys, Vows, Weariness, Worry, etc.

Neptune and Saturn: Submarine, Secret Service, Service in Places Where Liquids Are Dealt With (Acids, Oils, etc.), Service in Stock Exchange, Fifth Columnists.

Keywords of Saturn: Aged, Bony, Bankrupt, Binding, Bereavement, Calculative, Chronic, Concentration, Continuation, Coagulation, Delay, Dissatisfaction, Dealers in Land, Animals such as Goats, Donkeys, Oil, Kerosene, Gingelly Oil, Pumpsets (with Mars) and Petrol (with Venus).

Lucky Colour: If Saturn is beneficial, the lucky colour is blue.

Lucky Number: 8, 17, 26, 35, 44, 53, and so on

Lucky Day: Saturday, followed by Friday

Lucky Gem: Blue Sapphire

Lucky Star Day: Pushya, Anuradha, and Uthrapathrapada