## HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY

The history of astrology begins with creation itself. Sage Garga says that the science was propounded by the Creator Himself and that Brahma handed it down to him at the time of creation. From Garga, other sages got it and it spread all over. It appears to be coeval with that of the Earth. In Western countries, there is a certain belief that Seth (3769 B.C.) was the world's first astrologer. This can be inferred from the astrological books written later by Arabic, Egyptian, Jewish, and Persian writers. Westerners believe that Seth was the first person to study the planets, their motions, and their pathways. It is he who divided the zodiac into twelve equal parts, as he found that the Sun ever follows a particular path in the heavens year after year; he also noticed that this circular route of the Sun was spaced out by twelve full moons, which occur once a month. Therefore, the Sun's path is divided into twelve equal parts called "Mazzaroth," which term we designate as "signs," rasis, or solar mansions.
Around 2600 years ago, the priests and the shepherds of Chaldea took this science for serious study and developed it. Their period was called the Golden Age of Astrology, because they connected the movements of the planets with all kinds of events in human life. Dr. Thompson says that the Akkadians and the Sumerians observed the heavens and heavenly bodies and tried to note their courses. The Babylonians and the Egyptians attributed some influence over the animate and inanimate objects on the Earth. Astrology was popular and it wielded great influence over the rich, the priests, the princes, and the kings. Mespero said that, in his time, the mistress of the world was astrology.
Some are of the opinion that astrology had its origin in Chaldea from time immemorial. They suggest that the very name Chaldean means "astrologer." The Pythagoreans further advanced the concepts of the Chaldeans. They applied higher mathematics. Later, astrology came into the hands of the Greeks. They concentrated more on natal astrology, as they had a deep-rooted religious nature and an enquiring mind. They always posed the questions, "Who am I? Why am I born? What for do I live? Why are there so much of inequalities in life?" They had the answers only through astrology.
Many of the records of the early astrologers of Nineveh and Babylon are found among the early tablets in the British Museum. Some of their findings are dated nearly 5000 years ago. The Greeks were also enthusiastic in following astrology. They erected the horoscope for the time of birth and presaged the finance, family, fate, fortune, and future of the individuals. One of the Greek horoscopes written in papyrus about 2000 years ago is kept in the British Museum. The Chaldeans who practiced this art of astrology were held in high esteem even at the time of Alexander the Great.
The Egyptians were equally interested in astrology, which played an important role. They were also responsible for shaping the future of the nation. As can be seen from the monuments, the inscriptions, and modern investigations, this science dates back to 5000 B.C. The Pharaohs gave much respect to the astrologers of whom Babilus was the leader. He was always consulted and the duty of Babilus was to find out the charts of those who might perchance gain power, become a rival, and create trouble to the emperor. Whenever Babilus foresaw any such native, he informed the king, who put such people to death. Pharaohs had faith in their astrologers. Often they were consulted to interpret the dreams of the king.
In Persia, the kings honored the astrologer for their sound knowledge of this science. It is only Gjamasp, otherwise known as "Al Hakim" (meaning "learned"), an astrologer in the Persian court, who precisely predicted the time of birth of the Prophets. The Saracens spread the science in Spain in 711 A.D. and the North Africans, the Moors, in 1237, carried the science to Europe.
Dr. Brewster admits that in China about 2752 B.C., from the days of King Fohi, they developed astronomy solely for studying astrology; and emperors were chosen according to the profound knowledge possessed by them in astrology. In 2513 B.C., Cheuni was elected as the king in that manner. Whenever Alexander the Great went out, he took with him the astronomer Calisthenis in all his fifteen campaigns. He spread the science in the East by giving out some of the rational methods adopted there, and his visit to India had helped him to learn more and develop it further in his country.
Henry Cornelius Agrippa, born in 1486, was the astrologer to Francis I of France when he was 38 years old. John Dee was the favorite astrologer of Queen Elizabeth. Abu Mezar of Bulah was the professor of mundane astrology at Bagdad. The Caliph Mammonarmsheed translated many ancient astrological works into Arabic.
Thus, every nation is to be credited with the knowledge of this science. It is advisable to learn the experiences and findings of research workers who have contributed to the technique of correct prediction. Let me mention the names of a few foreigners who have contributed to the development of this science. They were not only scholars in astrology but were renowned and reputed astronomers, historians, philosophers, physicians, and poets.
Astronomers: Ptolemy (67 A.D.), Galileo, Newton, Pythagoras, Kepler (27-12-1571), Copernicus.
Astrologers: Alan Leo, Sepharial, Dr. W.J. Llewallyn, Hayden, George, Agrippa Simmonite, Max Heindel, Carter, Parter, Morirus, Maurice, Sibley, Wemyss, W. Lily, Culpeter, Boreham, Robson, Newton.
Historians: Diodorus, Coley, Pabwal, Maximus, Josephus, Plutarch, Camden, Herodotus.
Philosophers: Lilly, Macrobius, Aristotle, Bacon, Thales, Pliny, Anasagoros, Ptolemy.
Physicians: Hypocrates, Foster, John Dee, Gilbert, Partridge, Agrippa, Starkey.
Poets: Hypocrates, Foster, Galen, John Dee, Gilbert, Partridge, Agrippa.

In India, it is said that the sage Garga handed down the science of astrology to his disciples. There are recorded evidences that the Yavanas were very learned astrologers and that they lived many centuries before Varahamihira, who admired the progress made by the Yavanas in this science in his textbooks. Yavanas have contributed much to the development of this science in India. Records show that around 3102 B.C. the Tirvalore Tables were used solely for astrological purposes. The following list furnishes the names of a few renowned Indian scholars who expounded, explained, and interpreted this science: Garga, Viddha Garga, Asite, Aryabhatta, Bhrigu, Brihaspathi, Badarayana, Baradwaja, Bhadalla, Devaswami, Devala, Dravyavardhana, Garutman, Jeevasaman, Kapila, Kanabuk, Kashyappa, Latacharya, Manu, Manitha, Maya, Parasara, Panlisa Pitamaha-Romaka, Rishiputa, Sidhasena, Simhacharya, Saka, Saptharishi, Saraswatha, Savitra, Satyacharya, Yavanacharya, Varahamihira, Bathothpala, Prithyuyasas, Vaidyanatha Dikshithar, and many others. Thus, it can be seen that astrology was held in great esteem in all ages by the leaders in other sciences as well.

As years passed by, for various reasons, this science, which is sure to live long, has lost some of its charms. But science remains ever a science. In every age, a particular science alone receives much attention and is developed, even though every science has its own innate value and is useful to us. No country has ever passed without any advancement in any branch of science. So, in every age, one science may be very popular, whereas the other sciences may be ignored, though not totally forgotten. It is not unlikely that there are people even now whose names would come as a great surprise to all; there will be very earnest and loyal students of astrology who will popularize astrology.

This book is published with the sincere desire that astrology should be made popular. Much research is done regularly and systematically, and further research has to be carried out. There should be fool-proof methods to read accurate results. Students of astrology with half-baked knowledge should be educated and imparted higher knowledge. Their doubts should be cleared. Those who bring ridicule to this noble science should be silenced by producing able astrologers who will give correct knowledge to them. It is only with correct and clear understanding of the subject that one can predict astoundingly accurate results, and establish that the noble legacy, astrology, given to us by our forefathers, is indeed a science which is as accurate as any other science. The present position of astrology, in the hands of a number of astrologers, is really deplorable. The excuse may be that there is no proper education for them and hence the result is unsatisfactory. Even when watches are manufactured by one concern, no two watches agree. If they are manufactured by many, one can guess how they will be. Similarly, astrologers and a few other professionals usually offer different opinions, confusing the already depressed consultant. So, I suggest that coaching up of students is absolutely necessary to have the same school of thought. To say that it is not a fit subject cannot be said as a wise statement from the astrologer's point of view.

In many other countries, astrology is included in the curriculum. It is understood that in American universities, astrology is included. Also, there are schools of astrology in Germany, Switzerland, Holland, and France. Now, in India, in Jaipur, astrology is included. KULAPATIJI Dr. MUNSHI is conducting courses on astrology in Delhi and Madras, where I coach up students, and in Bombay, learned scholars with vast experience teach. Scientific circles there give serious attention to it. Astrologers are today thankful to the Astrological Research Association of New York, which publishes a quarterly (Editor: Charles Jayne), and all research scholars are allowed to contribute their articles. At present, in India, astrology is like a TB patient left uncared for, especially by those who alone can cure. It is handled by a few. Of them, some are avaricious, some have commercialized it by fortunetelling without the desire to maintain the prestige and utility of astrology. Some alone sacrifice everything for this noble science. The rash and worthless predictions of a few astrologers have debased astrology and these are received with a sarcastic smile only to be dismissed.