## Nadis
People feel sorry that they consulted "Nadis" written on palmyra leaves, which are claimed to be written by the ancient Rishis of India. It is a fact that the events in the lives of many people born and yet to be born are found written already by Hindu geniuses. People who have consulted them add that they are dumbfounded with the surprisingly accurate happenings of the past events, but feel upset when the future predictions fall miserably. This is a common complaint. Thousands of years ago, Rishis wrote these wonderful predictions. 
Why can they be very correct in all the predictions from the time of birth of the native till the date of consultation, yet fail in their future predictions? This needs proper investigation, as there are a large number of genuine Nadis and it is likely that a few may be unauthentic ones. 
The solution can be found easily if the palm leaves are handed over to the consultants by the owners, who hold the leaves and read out the results, as if from them. If the reading of the past and present agree correctly, the future must also be invariably correct when the Nadi can claim to be one of the genuine documents. Our sages who wrote Nadis can never fail in their predictions and they have never failed, due to their intuitive power and scientific knowledge.
It is not unlikely that a few readers of the palm leaves gain enough knowledge and experience to recite verses, composed by themselves in no time. 
A few of them, when they read the past events, have to read very strictly the material as it is found in the leaves, because the past has to be correct. Then only, the consultant will hear them further. But when the future is to be read, it is open to doubt as to whether they read only those materials found on the leaves or they themselves coin verses suiting the taste of the querist.
In one case, a consultant and his friend caught a fraud, the Nadi reader, red-handed, because he had Mahabaratham on hand and read his life by having those leaves on hand, looking at them and turning over pages after pages every 5 minutes. 
Another experience at Benares was also published in the magazine Astrology and Athrishta. It is a pity that the existence of a few such people bring ridicule to this amazing Nadi.
Another investigation is also to be made to find out whether the documents are genuine and original. 
There is the doubt whether the authors, i.e. the sages, knew all languages including Tamil, etc., in South India, as they lived in the North having Sanskrit as the Mother tongue and Nadis are found in all languages. Also, whether they used paper and pen as some Nadis are found written in paper and claimed to be original. 
Whatever it is, there are records now to prove that astrology was practiced by many people thousands of years ago who could predict even the birth time of a native in the 20th century, the place of his birth, names of his parents, occupations, etc., and the events in his life; marriage, profession, foreign journey, property, conveyance, etc. They had such profound knowledge. 
Now it has deteriorated to a great extent, like a multi-millionaire having a few hundreds in the bank. It is more or less in a pitiable condition in India.
In fact, there is probably not one science which is not properly understood, which so many pretend to know, and on which so many are prepared to express an opinion as in the case of astrology.
Westerners are always research-minded. If they find any truth in any statement and if they are convinced, they study it further and develop it. It may be that there are failures. Yet they consider how it is possible to predict correctly in some cases, and why in other cases there is failure; and to find out the truth they make research until something satisfactory is discovered.
Egyptians were observing the stars for more than 473,000 years. So says Diodorus in his writings in 30 B.C. and they still continue to observe, record and further improve their knowledge in Astronomy, which is the complement of the other science, Astrology.
I have, so far, been briefly stating the fate of astrology in India and in other countries from the time of Creation till today.
